she is lying also . They are both lying , and in a conspiracy . So now we have the clear problem . Why are they lying , and what is the truth which they are trying so hard to conceal ? Let us try , Watson , you and I , if we can get behind the lie and reconstruct the truth . `` How do I know that they are lying ? Because it is a clumsy fabrication which simply could not be true . Consider ! According to the story given to us , the assassin had less than a minute after the murder had been committed to take that ring , which was under another ring , from the dead man 's finger , to replace the other ring -- -a thing which he would surely never have done -- -and to put that singular card beside his victim . I say that this was obviously impossible . `` You may argue -- -but I have too much respect for your judgment , Watson , to think that you will do so -- -that the ring may have been taken before the man was killed . The fact that the candle had been lit only a short time shows that there had been no lengthy interview . Was Douglas , from what we hear of his fearless character , a man who would be likely to give up his wedding ring at such short notice , or could we conceive of his giving it up at all ? No , no , Watson , the assassin was alone with the dead man for some time with the lamp lit . Of that I have no doubt at all . `` But the gunshot was apparently the cause of death . Therefore the shot must have been fired some time earlier than we are told . But there could be no mistake about such a matter as that . We are in the presence , therefore , of a deliberate conspiracy upon the part of the two people who heard the gunshot -- -of the man Barker and of the woman Douglas . When on the top of this I am able to show that the blood mark on the windowsill was deliberately placed there by Barker , in order to give a false clue to the police , you will admit that the case grows dark against him . `` Now we have to ask ourselves at what hour the murder actually did occur . Up to half-past ten the servants were moving about the house ; so it was certainly not before that time . At a quarter to eleven they had all gone to their rooms with the exception of Ames , who was in the pantry . I have been trying some experiments after you left us this afternoon , and I find that no noise which MacDonald can make in the study can penetrate to me in the pantry when the doors are all shut . `` It is otherwise , however , from the housekeeper 's room . It is not so far down the corridor , and from it I could vaguely hear a voice when it was very loudly raised . The sound from a shotgun is to some extent muffled when the discharge is at very close range , as it undoubtedly was in this instance . It would not be very loud , and yet in the silence of the night it should have easily penetrated to Mrs. Allen 's room . She is , as she has told us , somewhat deaf ; but none the less she mentioned in her evidence that she did hear something like a door slamming half an hour before the alarm was given . Half an hour before the alarm was given would be a quarter to eleven . I have no doubt that what she heard was the report of the gun , and that this was the real instant of the murder . `` If this is so , we have now to determine what Barker and Mrs. Douglas , presuming that they are not the actual murderers , could have been doing from quarter to eleven , when the sound of the shot brought them down , until quarter past eleven , when they rang the bell and summoned the servants . What were they doing , and why did they not instantly give the alarm ? That is the question which faces us , and when it has been answered we shall surely have gone some way to solve our problem . `` `` I am convinced myself , '' said I , `` that there is an understanding between those two people . She must be a heartless creature to sit laughing at some jest within a few hours of her husband 's murder. '' '' Exactly . She does not shine as a wife even in her own account of what occurred . I am not a whole-souled admirer of womankind , as you are aware , Watson , but my experience of life has taught me that there are few wives , having any regard for their husbands , who would let any man 's spoken word stand between them and that husband 's dead body . Should I ever marry , Watson , I should hope to inspire my wife with some feeling which would prevent her from being walked off by a housekeeper when my corpse was lying within a few yards of her . It was badly stage-managed ; for even the rawest investigators must be struck by the absence of the usual feminine ululation . If there had been nothing else , this incident alone would have suggested a prearranged conspiracy to my mind . `` `` You think then , definitely , that Barker and Mrs. Douglas are guilty of the murder ? `` `` There is an appalling directness about your questions , Watson , '' said Holmes , shaking his pipe at me . `` They come at me like bullets . If you put it that Mrs. Douglas and Barker know the truth about the murder , and are conspiring to conceal it , then I can give you a whole-souled answer . I am sure they do . But your more deadly proposition is not so clear . Let us for a moment consider the difficulties which stand in the way . `` We will suppose that this couple are united by the bonds of a guilty love , and that they have determined to get rid of the man who stands between them . It is a large supposition ; for discreet inquiry among servants and others has failed to corroborate it in any way . On the contrary , there is a good deal of evidence that the Douglases were very attached to each other . `` `` That , I am sure , can not be true , '' said I , thinking of the beautiful smiling face in the garden . `` Well at least they gave that impression . However , we will suppose that they are an extraordinarily astute couple , who deceive everyone upon this point , and conspire to murder the husband . He happens to be a man over whose head some danger hangs -- - '' '' We have only their word for that . `` Holmes looked thoughtful . `` I see , Watson . You are sketching out a theory by which everything they say from the beginning is false . According to your idea , there was never any hidden menace , or secret society , or Valley of Fear , or Boss MacSomebody , or anything else . Well , that is a good sweeping generalization . Let us see what that brings us to . They invent this theory to account for the crime . They then play up to the idea by leaving this bicycle in the park as proof of the existence of some outsider . The stain on the windowsill conveys the same idea . So does the card on the body , which might have been prepared in the house . That all fits into your hypothesis , Watson . But now we come on the nasty , angular , uncompromising bits which wo n't slip into their places . Why a cut-off shotgun of all weapons -- -and an American one at that ? How could they be so sure that the sound of it would not bring someone on to them ? It 's a mere chance as it is that Mrs. Allen did not start out to inquire for the slamming door . Why did your guilty couple do all this , Watson ? `` `` I confess that I ca n't explain it . `` `` Then again , if a woman and her lover conspire to murder a husband , are they going to advertise their guilt by ostentatiously removing his wedding ring after his death ? Does that strike you as very probable , Watson ? `` `` No , it does not . `` `` And once again , if the thought of leaving a bicycle concealed outside had occurred to you , would it really have seemed worth doing when the dullest detective would naturally say this is an obvious blind , as the bicycle is the first thing which the fugitive needed in order to make his escape . `` `` I can conceive of no explanation . `` `` And yet there should be no combination of events for which the wit of man can not conceive an explanation . Simply as a mental exercise , without any assertion that it is true , let me indicate a possible line of thought . It is , I admit , mere imagination ; but how often is imagination the mother of truth ? `` We will suppose that there was a guilty secret , a really shameful secret in the life of this man Douglas . This leads to his murder by someone who is , we will suppose , an avenger , someone from outside . This avenger , for some reason which I confess I am still at a loss to explain , took the dead man 's wedding ring . The vendetta might conceivably date back to the man 's first marriage , and the ring be taken for some such reason . `` Before this avenger got away , Barker and the wife had reached the room . The assassin convinced them that any attempt to arrest him would lead to the publication of some hideous scandal . They were converted to this idea , and preferred to let him go . For this purpose they probably lowered the bridge , which can be done quite noiselessly , and then raised it again . He made his escape , and for some reason thought that he could do so more safely on foot than on the bicycle . He therefore left his machine where it would not be discovered until he had got safely away . So far we are within the bounds of possibility , are we not ? `` `` Well , it is possible , no doubt , '' said I , with some reserve . `` We have to remember , Watson , that whatever occurred is certainly something very extraordinary . Well , now , to continue our supposititious case , the couple -- -not necessarily a guilty couple -- -realize after the murderer is gone that they have placed themselves in a position in which it may be difficult for them to prove that they did not themselves either do the deed or connive at it