in perfect time and tune . It chanced that out of one of the bundles there stuck the end of what the clerk saw to be a cittern , so drawing it forth , he tuned it up and twanged a harmony to the merry lilt which the dancers played . On that they dropped their own instruments , and putting their hands to the ground they hopped about faster and faster , ever shouting to him to play more briskly , until at last for very weariness all three had to stop . `` Well played , sweet poppet ! '' cried the younger . `` Hast a rare touch on the strings . `` `` How knew you the tune ? '' asked the other . `` I knew it not . I did but follow the notes I heard . `` Both opened their eyes at this , and stared at Alleyne with as much amazement as he had shown at them . `` You have a fine trick of ear then , '' said one . `` We have long wished to meet such a man . Wilt join us and jog on to Ringwood ? Thy duties shall be light , and thou shalt have two-pence a day and meat for supper every night . `` `` With as much beer as you can put away , '' said the other , `` and a flask of Gascon wine on Sabbaths . `` `` Nay , it may not be . I have other work to do . I have tarried with you over long , '' quoth Alleyne , and resolutely set forth upon his journey once more . They ran behind him some little way , offering him first fourpence and then sixpence a day , but he only smiled and shook his head , until at last they fell away from him . Looking back , he saw that the smaller had mounted on the younger 's shoulders , and that they stood so , some ten feet high , waving their adieus to him . He waved back to them , and then hastened on , the lighter of heart for having fallen in with these strange men of pleasure.Alleyne had gone no great distance for all the many small passages that had befallen him . Yet to him , used as he was to a life of such quiet that the failure of a brewing or the altering of an anthem had seemed to be of the deepest import , the quick changing play of the lights and shadows of life was strangely startling and interesting . A gulf seemed to divide this brisk uncertain existence from the old steady round of work and of prayer which he had left behind him . The few hours that had passed since he saw the Abbey tower stretched out in his memory until they outgrew whole months of the stagnant life of the cloister . As he walked and munched the soft bread from his scrip , it seemed strange to him to feel that it was still warm from the ovens of Beaulieu.When he passed Penerley , where were three cottages and a barn , he reached the edge of the tree country , and found the great barren heath of Blackdown stretching in front of him , all pink with heather and bronzed with the fading ferns . On the left the woods were still thick , but the road edged away from them and wound over the open . The sun lay low in the west upon a purple cloud , whence it threw a mild , chastening light over the wild moorland and glittered on the fringe of forest turning the withered leaves into flakes of dead gold , the brighter for the black depths behind them . To the seeing eye decay is as fair as growth , and death as life . The thought stole into Alleyne 's heart as he looked upon the autumnal country side and marvelled at its beauty . He had little time to dwell upon it however , for there were still six good miles between him and the nearest inn . He sat down by the roadside to partake of his bread and cheese , and then with a lighter scrip he hastened upon his way.There appeared to be more wayfarers on the down than in the forest . First he passed two Dominicans in their long black dresses , who swept by him with downcast looks and pattering lips , without so much as a glance at him . Then there came a gray friar , or minorite , with a good paunch upon him , walking slowly and looking about him with the air of a man who was at peace with himself and with all men . He stopped Alleyne to ask him whether it was not true that there was a hostel somewhere in those parts which was especially famous for the stewing of eels . The clerk having made answer that he had heard the eels of Sowley well spoken of , the friar sucked in his lips and hurried forward . Close at his heels came three laborers walking abreast , with spade and mattock over their shoulders . They sang some rude chorus right tunefully as they walked , but their English was so coarse and rough that to the ears of a cloister-bred man it sounded like a foreign and barbarous tongue . One of them carried a young bittern which they had caught upon the moor , and they offered it to Alleyne for a silver groat . Very glad he was to get safely past them , for , with their bristling red beards and their fierce blue eyes , they were uneasy men to bargain with upon a lonely moor.Yet it is not always the burliest and the wildest who are the most to be dreaded . The workers looked hungrily at him , and then jogged onwards upon their way in slow , lumbering Saxon style . A worse man to deal with was a wooden-legged cripple who came hobbling down the path , so weak and so old to all appearance that a child need not stand in fear of him . Yet when Alleyne had passed him , of a sudden , out of pure devilment , he screamed out a curse at him , and sent a jagged flint stone hurtling past his ear . So horrid was the causeless rage of the crooked creature , that the clerk came over a cold thrill , and took to his heels until he was out of shot from stone or word . It seemed to him that in this country of England there was no protection for a man save that which lay in the strength of his own arm and the speed of his own foot . In the cloisters he had heard vague talk of the law -- -the mighty law which was higher than prelate or baron , yet no sign could he see of it . What was the benefit of a law written fair upon parchment , he wondered , if there were no officers to enforce it . As it fell out , however , he had that very evening , ere the sun had set , a chance of seeing how stern was the grip of the English law when it did happen to seize the offender.A mile or so out upon the moor the road takes a very sudden dip into a hollow , with a peat-colored stream running swiftly down the centre of it . To the right of this stood , and stands to this day , an ancient barrow , or burying mound , covered deeply in a bristle of heather and bracken . Alleyne was plodding down the slope upon one side , when he saw an old dame coming towards him upon the other , limping with weariness and leaning heavily upon a stick . When she reached the edge of the stream she stood helpless , looking to right and to left for some ford . Where the path ran down a great stone had been fixed in the centre of the brook , but it was too far from the bank for her aged and uncertain feet . Twice she thrust forward at it , and twice she drew back , until at last , giving up in despair , she sat herself down by the brink and wrung her hands wearily . There she still sat when Alleyne reached the crossing . `` Come , mother , '' quoth he , `` it is not so very perilous a passage. '' '' Alas ! good youth , '' she answered , `` I have a humor in the eyes , and though I can see that there is a stone there I can by no means be sure as to where it lies . `` `` That is easily amended , '' said he cheerily , and picking her lightly up , for she was much worn with time , he passed across with her . He could not but observe , however , that as he placed her down her knees seemed to fail her , and she could scarcely prop herself up with her staff . `` You are weak , mother , '' said he . `` Hast journeyed far , I wot . `` `` From Wiltshire , friend , '' said she , in a quavering voice ; `` three days have I been on the road . I go to my son , who is one of the King 's regarders at Brockenhurst . He has ever said that he would care for me in mine old age . `` `` And rightly too , mother , since you cared for him in his youth . But when have you broken fast ? `` `` At Lyndenhurst ; but alas ! my money is at an end , and I could but get a dish of bran-porridge from the nunnery . Yet I trust that I may be able to reach Brockenhurst to-night , where I may have all that heart can desire ; for oh ! sir , but my son is a fine man , with a kindly heart of his own , and it is as good as food to me to think that he should have a doublet of Lincoln green to his back and be the King 's own paid man . `` `` It is a long road yet to Brockenhurst , '' said Alleyne ; `` but here is such bread and cheese as I have left , and here , too , is a penny which may help you to supper . May God be with you ! `` `` May God be with you , young man ! '' she cried . `` May He make your heart as glad as you have made mine ! '' She turned away , still mumbling blessings , and Alleyne saw her short figure and her long shadow stumbling slowly up the slope.He was moving away himself , when his eyes lit upon a strange sight , and one which sent a tingling through his skin . Out of the tangled scrub on the old overgrown barrow two human faces were looking out at him ; the sinking sun glimmered full upon them , showing up every line and feature . The one was an oldish man with a thin beard , a crooked nose , and a broad red smudge from a birth-mark over his temple ; the other was a negro , a thing rarely met in England at that day , and rarer still in