my meaning ? '' '' Entirely . `` `` I leave the matter to your discretion . '' Then , after a long pause , he added : `` The king of the ape-men was really a creature of great distinction -- -a most remarkably handsome and intelligent personality . Did it not strike you ? `` `` A most remarkable creature , '' said I.And the Professor , much eased in his mind , settled down to his slumber once more.We had imagined that our pursuers , the ape-men , knew nothing of our brush-wood hiding-place , but we were soon to find out our mistake . There was no sound in the woods -- -not a leaf moved upon the trees , and all was peace around us -- -but we should have been warned by our first experience how cunningly and how patiently these creatures can watch and wait until their chance comes . Whatever fate may be mine through life , I am very sure that I shall never be nearer death than I was that morning . But I will tell you the thing in its due order.We all awoke exhausted after the terrific emotions and scanty food of yesterday . Summerlee was still so weak that it was an effort for him to stand ; but the old man was full of a sort of surly courage which would never admit defeat . A council was held , and it was agreed that we should wait quietly for an hour or two where we were , have our much-needed breakfast , and then make our way across the plateau and round the central lake to the caves where my observations had shown that the Indians lived . We relied upon the fact that we could count upon the good word of those whom we had rescued to ensure a warm welcome from their fellows . Then , with our mission accomplished and possessing a fuller knowledge of the secrets of Maple White Land , we should turn our whole thoughts to the vital problem of our escape and return . Even Challenger was ready to admit that we should then have done all for which we had come , and that our first duty from that time onwards was to carry back to civilization the amazing discoveries we had made.We were able now to take a more leisurely view of the Indians whom we had rescued . They were small men , wiry , active , and well-built , with lank black hair tied up in a bunch behind their heads with a leathern thong , and leathern also were their loin-clothes . Their faces were hairless , well formed , and good-humored . The lobes of their ears , hanging ragged and bloody , showed that they had been pierced for some ornaments which their captors had torn out . Their speech , though unintelligible to us , was fluent among themselves , and as they pointed to each other and uttered the word `` Accala '' many times over , we gathered that this was the name of the nation . Occasionally , with faces which were convulsed with fear and hatred , they shook their clenched hands at the woods round and cried : `` Doda ! Doda ! '' which was surely their term for their enemies . `` What do you make of them , Challenger ? '' asked Lord John . `` One thing is very clear to me , and that is that the little chap with the front of his head shaved is a chief among them . `` It was indeed evident that this man stood apart from the others , and that they never ventured to address him without every sign of deep respect . He seemed to be the youngest of them all , and yet , so proud and high was his spirit that , upon Challenger laying his great hand upon his head , he started like a spurred horse and , with a quick flash of his dark eyes , moved further away from the Professor . Then , placing his hand upon his breast and holding himself with great dignity , he uttered the word `` Maretas '' several times . The Professor , unabashed , seized the nearest Indian by the shoulder and proceeded to lecture upon him as if he were a potted specimen in a class-room . `` The type of these people , '' said he in his sonorous fashion , `` whether judged by cranial capacity , facial angle , or any other test , can not be regarded as a low one ; on the contrary , we must place it as considerably higher in the scale than many South American tribes which I can mention . On no possible supposition can we explain the evolution of such a race in this place . For that matter , so great a gap separates these ape-men from the primitive animals which have survived upon this plateau , that it is inadmissible to think that they could have developed where we find them . `` `` Then where the dooce did they drop from ? '' asked Lord John . `` A question which will , no doubt , be eagerly discussed in every scientific society in Europe and America , '' the Professor answered . `` My own reading of the situation for what it is worth -- - '' he inflated his chest enormously and looked insolently around him at the words -- - '' is that evolution has advanced under the peculiar conditions of this country up to the vertebrate stage , the old types surviving and living on in company with the newer ones . Thus we find such modern creatures as the tapir -- -an animal with quite a respectable length of pedigree -- -the great deer , and the ant-eater in the companionship of reptilian forms of jurassic type . So much is clear . And now come the ape-men and the Indian . What is the scientific mind to think of their presence ? I can only account for it by an invasion from outside . It is probable that there existed an anthropoid ape in South America , who in past ages found his way to this place , and that he developed into the creatures we have seen , some of which '' -- -here he looked hard at me -- - '' were of an appearance and shape which , if it had been accompanied by corresponding intelligence , would , I do not hesitate to say , have reflected credit upon any living race . As to the Indians I can not doubt that they are more recent immigrants from below . Under the stress of famine or of conquest they have made their way up here . Faced by ferocious creatures which they had never before seen , they took refuge in the caves which our young friend has described , but they have no doubt had a bitter fight to hold their own against wild beasts , and especially against the ape-men who would regard them as intruders , and wage a merciless war upon them with a cunning which the larger beasts would lack . Hence the fact that their numbers appear to be limited . Well , gentlemen , have I read you the riddle aright , or is there any point which you would query ? `` Professor Summerlee for once was too depressed to argue , though he shook his head violently as a token of general disagreement . Lord John merely scratched his scanty locks with the remark that he could n't put up a fight as he was n't in the same weight or class . For my own part I performed my usual role of bringing things down to a strictly prosaic and practical level by the remark that one of the Indians was missing . `` He has gone to fetch some water , '' said Lord Roxton . `` We fitted him up with an empty beef tin and he is off . `` `` To the old camp ? '' I asked . `` No , to the brook . It 's among the trees there . It ca n't be more than a couple of hundred yards . But the beggar is certainly taking his time . `` `` I 'll go and look after him , '' said I. I picked up my rifle and strolled in the direction of the brook , leaving my friends to lay out the scanty breakfast . It may seem to you rash that even for so short a distance I should quit the shelter of our friendly thicket , but you will remember that we were many miles from Ape-town , that so far as we knew the creatures had not discovered our retreat , and that in any case with a rifle in my hands I had no fear of them . I had not yet learned their cunning or their strength.I could hear the murmur of our brook somewhere ahead of me , but there was a tangle of trees and brushwood between me and it . I was making my way through this at a point which was just out of sight of my companions , when , under one of the trees , I noticed something red huddled among the bushes . As I approached it , I was shocked to see that it was the dead body of the missing Indian . He lay upon his side , his limbs drawn up , and his head screwed round at a most unnatural angle , so that he seemed to be looking straight over his own shoulder . I gave a cry to warn my friends that something was amiss , and running forwards I stooped over the body . Surely my guardian angel was very near me then , for some instinct of fear , or it may have been some faint rustle of leaves , made me glance upwards . Out of the thick green foliage which hung low over my head , two long muscular arms covered with reddish hair were slowly descending . Another instant and the great stealthy hands would have been round my throat . I sprang backwards , but quick as I was , those hands were quicker still . Through my sudden spring they missed a fatal grip , but one of them caught the back of my neck and the other one my face . I threw my hands up to protect my throat , and the next moment the huge paw had slid down my face and closed over them . I was lifted lightly from the ground , and I felt an intolerable pressure forcing my head back and back until the strain upon the cervical spine was more than I could bear . My senses swam , but I still tore at the hand and forced it out from my chin . Looking up I saw a frightful face with cold inexorable light blue eyes looking down into mine . There was something hypnotic in those terrible eyes . I could struggle no longer . As the creature felt me grow limp in his grasp , two white canines gleamed for a moment at each side of the vile mouth , and the grip tightened still more upon my chin , forcing it always upwards and back . A thin , oval-tinted mist formed before my eyes and little silvery bells tinkled in my ears . Dully and far off I heard the crack of a rifle and was feebly aware of the shock as I was dropped to the earth , where I lay without sense