and robust build , with an arching chest and extraordinary breadth of shoulder . His shaven face was as brown as a hazel-nut , tanned and dried by the weather , with harsh , well-marked features , which were not improved by a long white scar which stretched from the corner of his left nostril to the angle of the jaw . His eyes were bright and searching , with something of menace and of authority in their quick glitter , and his mouth was firm-set and hard , as befitted one who was wont to set his face against danger . A straight sword by his side and a painted long-bow jutting over his shoulder proclaimed his profession , while his scarred brigandine of chain-mail and his dinted steel cap showed that he was no holiday soldier , but one who was even now fresh from the wars . A white surcoat with the lion of St. George in red upon the centre covered his broad breast , while a sprig of new-plucked broom at the side of his head-gear gave a touch of gayety and grace to his grim , war-worn equipment. '' Ha ! '' he cried , blinking like an owl in the sudden glare . `` Good even to you , comrades ! Hola ! a woman , by my soul ! '' and in an instant he had clipped Dame Eliza round the waist and was kissing her violently . His eye happening to wander upon the maid , however , he instantly abandoned the mistress and danced off after the other , who scurried in confusion up one of the ladders , and dropped the heavy trap-door upon her pursuer . He then turned back and saluted the landlady once more with the utmost relish and satisfaction . `` La petite is frightened , '' said he . `` Ah , c'est l'amour , l'amour ! Curse this trick of French , which will stick to my throat . I must wash it out with some good English ale . By my hilt ! camarades , there is no drop of French blood in my body , and I am a true English bowman , Samkin Aylward by name ; and I tell you , mes amis , that it warms my very heart-roots to set my feet on the dear old land once more . When I came off the galley at Hythe , this very day , I down on my bones , and I kissed the good brown earth , as I kiss thee now , ma belle , for it was eight long years since I had seen it . The very smell of it seemed life to me . But where are my six rascals ? Hola , there ! En avant ! `` At the order , six men , dressed as common drudges , marched solemnly into the room , each bearing a huge bundle upon his head . They formed in military line , while the soldier stood in front of them with stern eyes , checking off their several packages . `` Number one -- -a French feather-bed with the two counter-panes of white sendall , '' said he . `` Here , worthy sir , '' answered the first of the bearers , laying a great package down in the corner . `` Number two -- -seven ells of red Turkey cloth and nine ells of cloth of gold . Put it down by the other . Good dame , I prythee give each of these men a bottrine of wine or a jack of ale . Three -- -a full piece of white Genoan velvet with twelve ells of purple silk . Thou rascal , there is dirt on the hem ! Thou hast brushed it against some wall , coquin ! `` `` Not I , most worthy sir , '' cried the carrier , shrinking away from the fierce eyes of the bowman . `` I say yes , dog ! By the three kings ! I have seen a man gasp out his last breath for less . Had you gone through the pain and unease that I have done to earn these things you would be at more care . I swear by my ten finger-bones that there is not one of them that hath not cost its weight in French blood ! Four -- -an incense-boat , a ewer of silver , a gold buckle and a cope worked in pearls . I found them , camarades , at the Church of St. Denis in the harrying of Narbonne , and I took them away with me lest they fall into the hands of the wicked . Five -- -a cloak of fur turned up with minever , a gold goblet with stand and cover , and a box of rose-colored sugar . See that you lay them together . Six -- -a box of monies , three pounds of Limousine gold-work , a pair of boots , silver tagged , and , lastly , a store of naping linen . So , the tally is complete ! Here is a groat apiece , and you may go . `` `` Go whither , worthy sir ? '' asked one of the carriers. '' Whither ? To the devil if ye will . What is it to me ? Now , ma belle , to supper . A pair of cold capons , a mortress of brawn , or what you will , with a flask or two of the right Gascony . I have crowns in my pouch , my sweet , and I mean to spend them . Bring in wine while the food is dressing . Buvons my brave lads ; you shall each empty a stoup with me . `` Here was an offer which the company in an English inn at that or any other date are slow to refuse . The flagons were re-gathered and came back with the white foam dripping over their edges . Two of the woodmen and three of the laborers drank their portions off hurriedly and trooped off together , for their homes were distant and the hour late . The others , however , drew closer , leaving the place of honor to the right of the gleeman to the free-handed new-comer . He had thrown off his steel cap and his brigandine , and had placed them with his sword , his quiver and his painted long-bow , on the top of his varied heap of plunder in the corner . Now , with his thick and somewhat bowed legs stretched in front of the blaze , his green jerkin thrown open , and a great quart pot held in his corded fist , he looked the picture of comfort and of good-fellowship . His hard-set face had softened , and the thick crop of crisp brown curls which had been hidden by his helmet grew low upon his massive neck . He might have been forty years of age , though hard toil and harder pleasure had left their grim marks upon his features . Alleyne had ceased painting his pied merlin , and sat , brush in hand , staring with open eyes at a type of man so strange and so unlike any whom he had met . Men had been good or had been bad in his catalogue , but here was a man who was fierce one instant and gentle the next , with a curse on his lips and a smile in his eye . What was to be made of such a man as that ? It chanced that the soldier looked up and saw the questioning glance which the young clerk threw upon him . He raised his flagon and drank to him , with a merry flash of his white teeth . `` A toi , mon garcon , '' he cried . `` Hast surely never seen a man-at-arms , that thou shouldst stare so ? `` `` I never have , '' said Alleyne frankly , `` though I have oft heard talk of their deeds . `` `` By my hilt ! '' cried the other , `` if you were to cross the narrow sea you would find them as thick as bees at a tee-hole . Couldst not shoot a bolt down any street of Bordeaux , I warrant , but you would pink archer , squire , or knight . There are more breastplates than gaberdines to be seen , I promise you . `` `` And where got you all these pretty things ? '' asked Hordle John , pointing at the heap in the corner . `` Where there is as much more waiting for any brave lad to pick it up . Where a good man can always earn a good wage , and where he need look upon no man as his paymaster , but just reach his hand out and help himself . Aye , it is a goodly and a proper life . And here I drink to mine old comrades , and the saints be with them ! Arouse all together , mes enfants , under pain of my displeasure . To Sir Claude Latour and the White Company ! `` `` Sir Claude Latour and the White Company ! '' shouted the travellers , draining off their goblets . `` Well quaffed , mes braves ! It is for me to fill your cups again , since you have drained them to my dear lads of the white jerkin . Hola ! mon ange , bring wine and ale . How runs the old stave ? -- - We 'll drink all together To the gray goose feather And the land where the gray goose flew . `` He roared out the catch in a harsh , unmusical voice , and ended with a shout of laughter . `` I trust that I am a better bowman than a minstrel , '' said he . `` Methinks I have some remembrance of the lilt , '' remarked the gleeman , running his fingers over the strings . `` Hoping that it will give thee no offence , most holy sir '' -- -with a vicious snap at Alleyne -- - '' and with the kind permit of the company , I will even venture upon it . `` Many a time in the after days Alleyne Edricson seemed to see that scene , for all that so many which were stranger and more stirring were soon to crowd upon him . The fat , red-faced gleeman , the listening group , the archer with upraised finger beating in time to the music , and the huge sprawling figure of Hordle John , all thrown into red light and black shadow by the flickering fire in the centre -- -memory was to come often lovingly back to it . At the time he was lost in admiration at the deft way in which the jongleur disguised the loss of his two missing strings , and the lusty , hearty fashion in which he trolled out his little ballad of the outland bowmen , which ran in some such fashion as this : What of the bow ? The bow was made in England : Of true wood , of yew wood , The wood of English bows ; So men who are free Love the old yew tree And the land where the yew tree grows . What of the cord ? The cord was made in England : A rough cord , a tough cord , A cord that bowmen love ; So we 'll drain our jacks To the English flax And the land where the hemp was wove .