some carbolic . Who knows what venom these beasts may have in their hideous jaws ? `` But surely no men ever had just such a day since the world began . Some fresh surprise was ever in store for us . When , following the course of our brook , we at last reached our glade and saw the thorny barricade of our camp , we thought that our adventures were at an end . But we had something more to think of before we could rest . The gate of Fort Challenger had been untouched , the walls were unbroken , and yet it had been visited by some strange and powerful creature in our absence . No foot-mark showed a trace of its nature , and only the overhanging branch of the enormous ginko tree suggested how it might have come and gone ; but of its malevolent strength there was ample evidence in the condition of our stores . They were strewn at random all over the ground , and one tin of meat had been crushed into pieces so as to extract the contents . A case of cartridges had been shattered into matchwood , and one of the brass shells lay shredded into pieces beside it . Again the feeling of vague horror came upon our souls , and we gazed round with frightened eyes at the dark shadows which lay around us , in all of which some fearsome shape might be lurking . How good it was when we were hailed by the voice of Zambo , and , going to the edge of the plateau , saw him sitting grinning at us upon the top of the opposite pinnacle . `` All well , Massa Challenger , all well ! '' he cried . `` Me stay here . No fear . You always find me when you want . `` His honest black face , and the immense view before us , which carried us half-way back to the affluent of the Amazon , helped us to remember that we really were upon this earth in the twentieth century , and had not by some magic been conveyed to some raw planet in its earliest and wildest state . How difficult it was to realize that the violet line upon the far horizon was well advanced to that great river upon which huge steamers ran , and folk talked of the small affairs of life , while we , marooned among the creatures of a bygone age , could but gaze towards it and yearn for all that it meant ! One other memory remains with me of this wonderful day , and with it I will close this letter . The two professors , their tempers aggravated no doubt by their injuries , had fallen out as to whether our assailants were of the genus pterodactylus or dimorphodon , and high words had ensued . To avoid their wrangling I moved some little way apart , and was seated smoking upon the trunk of a fallen tree , when Lord John strolled over in my direction . `` I say , Malone , '' said he , `` do you remember that place where those beasts were ? `` `` Very clearly . `` `` A sort of volcanic pit , was it not ? `` `` Exactly , '' said I . `` Did you notice the soil ? '' '' Rocks . `` `` But round the water -- -where the reeds were ? `` `` It was a bluish soil . It looked like clay. '' '' Exactly . A volcanic tube full of blue clay . `` `` What of that ? '' I asked . `` Oh , nothing , nothing , '' said he , and strolled back to where the voices of the contending men of science rose in a prolonged duet , the high , strident note of Summerlee rising and falling to the sonorous bass of Challenger . I should have thought no more of Lord John 's remark were it not that once again that night I heard him mutter to himself : `` Blue clay -- -clay in a volcanic tube ! '' They were the last words I heard before I dropped into an exhausted sleep.Lord John Roxton was right when he thought that some specially toxic quality might lie in the bite of the horrible creatures which had attacked us . On the morning after our first adventure upon the plateau , both Summerlee and I were in great pain and fever , while Challenger 's knee was so bruised that he could hardly limp . We kept to our camp all day , therefore , Lord John busying himself , with such help as we could give him , in raising the height and thickness of the thorny walls which were our only defense . I remember that during the whole long day I was haunted by the feeling that we were closely observed , though by whom or whence I could give no guess.So strong was the impression that I told Professor Challenger of it , who put it down to the cerebral excitement caused by my fever . Again and again I glanced round swiftly , with the conviction that I was about to see something , but only to meet the dark tangle of our hedge or the solemn and cavernous gloom of the great trees which arched above our heads . And yet the feeling grew ever stronger in my own mind that something observant and something malevolent was at our very elbow . I thought of the Indian superstition of the Curupuri -- -the dreadful , lurking spirit of the woods -- -and I could have imagined that his terrible presence haunted those who had invaded his most remote and sacred retreat.That night ( our third in Maple White Land ) we had an experience which left a fearful impression upon our minds , and made us thankful that Lord John had worked so hard in making our retreat impregnable . We were all sleeping round our dying fire when we were aroused -- -or , rather , I should say , shot out of our slumbers -- -by a succession of the most frightful cries and screams to which I have ever listened . I know no sound to which I could compare this amazing tumult , which seemed to come from some spot within a few hundred yards of our camp . It was as ear-splitting as any whistle of a railway-engine ; but whereas the whistle is a clear , mechanical , sharp-edged sound , this was far deeper in volume and vibrant with the uttermost strain of agony and horror . We clapped our hands to our ears to shut out that nerve-shaking appeal . A cold sweat broke out over my body , and my heart turned sick at the misery of it . All the woes of tortured life , all its stupendous indictment of high heaven , its innumerable sorrows , seemed to be centered and condensed into that one dreadful , agonized cry . And then , under this high-pitched , ringing sound there was another , more intermittent , a low , deep-chested laugh , a growling , throaty gurgle of merriment which formed a grotesque accompaniment to the shriek with which it was blended . For three or four minutes on end the fearsome duet continued , while all the foliage rustled with the rising of startled birds . Then it shut off as suddenly as it began . For a long time we sat in horrified silence . Then Lord John threw a bundle of twigs upon the fire , and their red glare lit up the intent faces of my companions and flickered over the great boughs above our heads . `` What was it ? '' I whispered . `` We shall know in the morning , '' said Lord John . `` It was close to us -- -not farther than the glade . `` `` We have been privileged to overhear a prehistoric tragedy , the sort of drama which occurred among the reeds upon the border of some Jurassic lagoon , when the greater dragon pinned the lesser among the slime , '' said Challenger , with more solemnity than I had ever heard in his voice . `` It was surely well for man that he came late in the order of creation . There were powers abroad in earlier days which no courage and no mechanism of his could have met . What could his sling , his throwing-stick , or his arrow avail him against such forces as have been loose to-night ? Even with a modern rifle it would be all odds on the monster . `` `` I think I should back my little friend , '' said Lord John , caressing his Express . `` But the beast would certainly have a good sporting chance . `` Summerlee raised his hand. '' Hush ! '' he cried . `` Surely I hear something ? `` From the utter silence there emerged a deep , regular pat-pat . It was the tread of some animal -- -the rhythm of soft but heavy pads placed cautiously upon the ground . It stole slowly round the camp , and then halted near our gateway . There was a low , sibilant rise and fall -- -the breathing of the creature . Only our feeble hedge separated us from this horror of the night . Each of us had seized his rifle , and Lord John had pulled out a small bush to make an embrasure in the hedge . `` By George ! '' he whispered . `` I think I can see it ! `` I stooped and peered over his shoulder through the gap . Yes , I could see it , too . In the deep shadow of the tree there was a deeper shadow yet , black , inchoate , vague -- -a crouching form full of savage vigor and menace . It was no higher than a horse , but the dim outline suggested vast bulk and strength . That hissing pant , as regular and full-volumed as the exhaust of an engine , spoke of a monstrous organism . Once , as it moved , I thought I saw the glint of two terrible , greenish eyes . There was an uneasy rustling , as if it were crawling slowly forward . `` I believe it is going to spring ! '' said I , cocking my rifle . `` Do n't fire ! Do n't fire ! '' whispered Lord John . `` The crash of a gun in this silent night would be heard for miles . Keep it as a last card . `` `` If it gets over the hedge we 're done , '' said Summerlee , and his voice crackled into a nervous laugh as he spoke . `` No , it must not get over , '' cried Lord John ; `` but hold your fire to the last . Perhaps I can make something of the fellow . I 'll chance it , anyhow . `` It was as brave an act as ever I saw a man do . He stooped to the fire , picked up a blazing branch , and slipped in an instant through a sallyport which he had made in our gateway . The thing moved forward with a dreadful snarl . Lord John never hesitated , but , running towards it with a quick , light step , he dashed the flaming wood into the brute 's face . For one moment I had a vision of a horrible mask like