to have recovered his serenity by this time , and his eyes twinkled as he spoke of his own exploits . `` I gets drunk with them . That 's how I does it . `` `` Oh , indeed . `` `` Yes , that 's how it 's worked . Lord love ye , when these fust-class certificated , second-cousin-to-an-earl merchant skippers comes out they move about among the chiefs and talks down to them as if they was tin Methuselahs on wheels . The Almighty 's great coat would n't make a waistcoat for some o ' these blokes . Now when I gets among 'em I has 'em all into the cabin , though they 're black an ' naked , an ' the smell ai n't over an ' above pleasant . Then I out with the rum and it 's 'help yourself an ' pass the bottle . ' Pretty soon , d 'ye see , their tongues get loosened , and as I lie low an ' keep dark I gets a pretty good idea o ' what 's in the market . Then when I knows what 's to be got , it 's queer if I do n't manage to get it . Besides , they like a little notice , just as Christians does , and they remembers me because I treat them well . `` `` An excellent plan , Miggs -- -a capital plan ! '' said the senior partner . `` You are an invaluable servant . `` `` Well , '' the captain said , rising from his chair , `` I 'm getting a great deal too dry with all this palaver . I do n't mind gettin ' drunk with nigger chiefs , but I 'm darned if I 'll -- - '' He paused , but the grim smile on his companion 's face showed that he appreciated the compliment . `` I say , '' he continued , giving his employer a confidential nudge with his elbow , `` suppose we 'd gone down in the bay this last time , you 'd ha ' been a bit out in your reckoning -- -eh , what ? `` `` Why so ? `` `` Well , we were over-insured on our outward passage . An accident then might ha ' put thousands in your pocket , I know . Coming back , though , the cargo was worth more than the insurance , I reckon . You 'd ha ' been out o ' pocket if we 'd foundered . It would ha ' been a case o ' the engineer hoisted on his own Peter , as Shakspere says . `` `` We take our chance of these things , '' the merchant said with dignity . `` Well , good morning , guv'nor , '' Captain Hamilton Miggs said brusquely . `` When you wants me you can lay your hands on me at the old crib , theCock and Cowslip , Rotherhithe . `` As he passed out through the office , Ezra rejoined his father . `` He 's a curious chap , '' he remarked , jerking his head in the direction which Miggs had taken . `` I heard him bellowing like a bull , so I thought I had best listen to what he had to say . He 's a useful servant , though . `` `` The fellow 's half a savage himself , '' his father said . `` He 's in his element among them . That 's why he gets on so well with them . `` `` He does n't seem much the worse for the climate , either . `` `` His body does not , but his soul , Ezra , his soul ? However , to return to business . I wish you to see the underwriters and pay the premium of theBlack Eagle . If you see your way to it , increase the policy ; but do it carefully , Ezra , and with tact . She will start about the time of the equinoctial gales . If anythingshouldhappen to her , it would be as well that the firm should have a margin on the right side . `` Edinburgh University may call herself with grim jocoseness the `` alma mater '' of her students , but if she be a mother at all she is one of a very heroic and Spartan cast , who conceals her maternal affection with remarkable success . The only signs of interest which she ever designs to evince towards her alumni are upon those not infrequent occasions when guineas are to be demanded from them . Then one is surprised to find how carefully the old hen has counted her chickens , and how promptly the demand is conveyed to each one of the thousands throughout the empire who , in spite of neglect , cherish a sneaking kindness for their old college . There is symbolism in the very look of her , square and massive , grim and grey , with never a pillar or carving to break the dead monotony of the great stone walls . She is learned , she is practical , and she is useful . There is little sentiment or romance in her composition , however , and in this she does but conform to the instincts of the nation of which she is the youngest but the most flourishing teacher.A lad coming up to an English University finds himself In an enlarged and enlightened public school . If he has passed through Harrow and Eton there is no very abrupt transition between the life which he has led in the sixth form and that which he finds awaiting him on the banks of the Cam and the Isis . Certain rooms are found for him which have been inhabited by generations of students in the past , and will be by as many in the future . His religion is cared for , and he is expected to put in an appearance at hall and at chapel . He must be within bounds at a fixed time . If he behave indecorously he is liable to be pounced upon and reported by special officials , and a code of punishments is hung perpetually over his head . In return for all this his University takes a keen interest in him . She pats him on the back if he succeeds . Prizes and scholarships , and fine fat fellowships are thrown plentifully in his way if he will gird up his loins and aspire to them.There is nothing of this in a Scotch University . The young aspirant pays his pound , and finds himself a student . After that he may do absolutely what he will . There are certain classes going on at certain hours , which he may attend if he choose . If not , he may stay away without the slightest remonstrance from the college . As to religion , he may worship the sun , or have a private fetish of his own upon the mantelpiece of his lodgings for all that the University cares . He may live where he likes , he may keep what hours he chooses , and he is at liberty to break every commandment in the decalogue as long as he behaves himself with some approach to decency within the academical precincts . In every way he is absolutely his own master . Examinations are periodically held , at which he may appear or not , as he chooses . The University is a great unsympathetic machine , taking in a stream of raw-boned cartilaginous youths at one end , and turning them out at the other as learned divines , astute lawyers , and skilful medical men . Of every thousand of the raw material about six hundred emerge at the other side . The remainder are broken in the process.The merits and faults of this Scotch system are alike evident . Left entirely to his own devices in a far from moral city , many a lad falls at the very starting-point of his life 's race , never to rise again . Many become idlers or take to drink , while others , after wasting time and money which they could ill afford , leave the college with nothing learned save vice . On the other hand , those whose manliness and good sense keep them straight have gone through a training which lasts them for life . They have been tried , and have not been found wanting . They have learned self-reliance , confidence , and , in a word , have become men of the world while theirconfreresin England are still magnified schoolboys.High up in a third flat in Howe Street one , Thomas Dimsdale , was going through his period of probation in a little bedroom and a large sitting-room , which latter , `` more studentium , '' served the purpose of dining-room , parlour , and study . A dingy sideboard , with four still more dingy chairs and an archaeological sofa , made up the whole of the furniture , with the exception of a circular mahogany centre-table , littered with note-books and papers . Above the mantelpiece was a fly-blown mirror with innumerable cards and notices projecting in a fringe all around , and a pair of pipe racks flanking it on either side . Along the centre of the side-board , arranged with suspicious neatness , as though seldom disturbed , stood a line of solemn books , Holden'sOsteology , Quain'sAnatomy , Kirkes'Physiology , and Huxley'sInvertebrata , together with a disarticulated human skull . On one side of the fireplace two thigh bones were stacked ; on the other a pair of foils , two basket-hilted single-sticks , and a set of boxing-gloves . On a shelf in a convenient niche was a small stock of general literature , which appeared to have been considerably more thumbed than the works upon medicine . Thackeray'sEsmondand Meredith'sRichard Feveretrubbed covers with Irving'sConquest of Granadaand a tattered line of paper-covered novels . Over the sideboard was a framed photograph of the Edinburgh University Football Fifteen , and opposite it a smaller one of Dimsdale himself , clad in the scantiest of garb , as he appeared after winning the half-mile at the Inter-University Handicap . A large silver goblet , the trophy of that occasion , stood underneath upon a bracket . Such was the student 's chamber upon the morning in question , save that in a roomy arm-chair in the corner the young gentleman himself was languidly reclining , with a short wooden pipe in his mouth , and his feet perched up upon the side of the table.Grey-eyed , yellow-haired , broad in the chest and narrow in the loins , with the strength of a bullock and the graceful activity of a stag , it would be hard to find a finer specimen of young British manhood . The long , fine curves of the limbs , and the easy pose of the round , strong head upon the thick , muscular neck , might have served as a model to an Athenian sculptor . There was nothing in the face , however , to recall the regular beauty of the East . It was Anglo-Saxon to the last feature , with its honest breadth between the eyes and its nascent moustache , a shade lighter in colour than the sun-burned skin . Shy , and yet strong ; plain , and yet pleasing ; it was the face of a type of man who has little to say for himself in this world , and says that little badly , but who has