, dear , and it shall be the last . Good-bye , Robert ! Good luck ! `` `` Good-bye , Hector ! Bon voyage ! `` The young artist remained by the table , while his sister followed her lover to the door . In the dim light of the hall he could see their figures and overhear their words . `` Next time , little girl ? `` `` Next time be it , Hector . `` `` And nothing can part us ? '' '' Nothing . `` `` In the whole world ? '' '' Nothing . `` Robert discreetly closed the door . A moment later a thud from without , and the quick footsteps crunching on the snow told him that their visitor had departed.The snow had ceased to fall , but for a week a hard frost had held the country side in its iron grip . The roads rang under the horses ' hoofs , and every wayside ditch and runlet was a street of ice . Over the long undulating landscape the red brick houses peeped out warmly against the spotless background , and the lines of grey smoke streamed straight up into the windless air . The sky was of the lightest palest blue , and the morning sun , shining through the distant fog-wreaths of Birmingham , struck a subdued glow from the broad-spread snow fields which might have gladdened the eyes of an artist.It did gladden the heart of one who viewed it that morning from the summit of the gently-curving Tamfield Hill Robert McIntyre stood with his elbows upon a gate-rail , his Tam-o'-Shanter hat over his eyes , and a short briar-root pipe in his mouth , looking slowly about him , with the absorbed air of one who breathes his fill of Nature . Beneath him to the north lay the village of Tamfield , red walls , grey roofs , and a scattered bristle of dark trees , with his own little Elmdene nestling back from the broad , white winding Birmingham Road . At the other side , as he slowly faced round , lay a vast stone building , white and clear-cut , fresh from the builders ' hands . A great tower shot up from one corner of it , and a hundred windows twinkled ruddily in the light of the morning sun . A little distance from it stood a second small square low-lying structure , with a tall chimney rising from the midst of it , rolling out a long plume of smoke into the frosty air . The whole vast structure stood within its own grounds , enclosed by a stately park wall , and surrounded by what would in time be an extensive plantation of fir-trees . By the lodge gates a vast pile ofdebris , with lines of sheds for workmen , and huge heaps of planks from scaffoldings , all proclaimed that the work had only just been brought to an end.Robert McIntyre looked down with curious eyes at the broad-spread building . It had long been a mystery and a subject of gossip for the whole country side . Hardly a year had elapsed since the rumour had first gone about that a millionaire had bought a tract of land , and that it was his intention to build a country seat upon it . Since then the work had been pushed on night and day , until now it was finished to the last detail in a shorter time than it takes to build many a six-roomed cottage . Every morning two long special trains had arrived from Birmingham , carrying down a great army of labourers , who were relieved in the evening by a fresh gang , who carried on their task under the rays of twelve enormous electric lights . The number of workmen appeared to be only limited by the space into which they could be fitted . Great lines of waggons conveyed the white Portland stone from the depot by the station . Hundreds of busy toilers handed it over , shaped and squared , to the actual masons , who swung it up with steam cranes on to the growing walls , where it was instantly fitted and mortared by their companions . Day by day the house shot higher , while pillar and cornice and carving seemed to bud out from it as if by magic . Nor was the work confined to the main building . A large separate structure sprang up at the same time , and there came gangs of pale-faced men from London with much extraordinary machinery , vast cylinders , wheels and wires , which they fitted up in this outlying building . The great chimney which rose from the centre of it , combined with these strange furnishings , seemed to mean that it was reserved as a factory or place of business , for it was rumoured that this rich man 's hobby was the same as a poor man 's necessity , and that he was fond of working with his own hands amid chemicals and furnaces . Scarce , too , was the second storey begun ere the wood-workers and plumbers and furnishers were busy beneath , carrying out a thousand strange and costly schemes for the greater comfort and convenience of the owner . Singular stories were told all round the country , and even in Birmingham itself , of the extraordinary luxury and the absolute disregard for money which marked all these arrangements . No sum appeared to be too great to spend upon the smallest detail which might do away with or lessen any of the petty inconveniences of life . Waggons and waggons of the richest furniture had passed through the village between lines of staring villagers . Costly skins , glossy carpets , rich rugs , ivory , and ebony , and metal ; every glimpse into these storehouses of treasure had given rise to some new legend . And finally , when all had been arranged , there had come a staff of forty servants , who heralded the approach of the owner , Mr. Raffles Haw himself.It was no wonder , then , that it was with considerable curiosity that Robert McIntyre looked down at the great house , and marked the smoking chimneys , the curtained windows , and the other signs which showed that its tenant had arrived . A vast area of greenhouses gleamed like a lake on the further side , and beyond were the long lines of stables and outhouses . Fifty horses had passed through Tamfield the week before , so that , large as were the preparations , they were not more than would be needed . Who and what could this man be who spent his money with so lavish a hand ? His name was unknown . Birmingham was as ignorant as Tamfield as to his origin or the sources of his wealth . Robert McIntyre brooded languidly over the problem as he leaned against the gate , puffing his blue clouds of bird's-eye into the crisp , still air.Suddenly his eye caught a dark figure emerging from the Avenue gates and striding up the winding road . A few minutes brought him near enough to show a familiar face looking over the stiff collar and from under the soft black hat of an English clergyman . `` Good-morning , Mr . Spurling . `` `` Ah , good-morning , Robert . How are you ? Are you coming my way ? How slippery the roads are ! `` His round , kindly face was beaming with good nature , and he took little jumps as he walked , like a man who can hardly contain himself for pleasure . `` Have you heard from Hector ? `` `` Oh , yes . He went off all right last Wednesday from Spithead , and he will write from Madeira . But you generally have later news at Elmdene than I have . `` `` I do n't know whether Laura has heard . Have you been up to see the new comer ? `` `` Yes ; I have just left him . `` `` Is he a married man -- -this Mr. Raffles Haw ? `` `` No , he is a bachelor . He does not seem to have any relations either , as far as I could learn . He lives alone , amid his huge staff of servants . It is a most remarkable establishment . It made me think of the Arabian Nights . `` `` And the man ? What is he like ? `` `` He is an angel -- -a positive angel . I never heard or read of such kindness in my life . He has made me a happy man . `` The clergyman 's eyes sparkled with emotion , and he blew his nose loudly in his big red handkerchief.Robert McIntyre looked at him in surprise . `` I am delighted to hear it , '' he said . `` May I ask what he has done ? `` `` I went up to him by appointment this morning . I had written asking him if I might call . I spoke to him of the parish and its needs , of my long struggle to restore the south side of the church , and of our efforts to help my poor parishioners during this hard weather . While I spoke he said not a word , but sat with a vacant face , as though he were not listening to me . When I had finished he took up his pen . 'How much will it take to do the church ? ' he asked . 'A thousand pounds , ' I answered ; 'but we have already raised three hundred among ourselves . The Squire has very handsomely given fifty pounds . ' 'Well , ' said he , 'how about the poor folk ? How many families are there ? ' 'About three hundred , ' I answered . 'And coals , I believe , are at about a pound a ton ' , said he . 'Three tons ought to see them through the rest of the winter . Then you can get a very fair pair of blankets for two pounds . That would make five pounds per family , and seven hundred for the church . ' He dipped his pen in the ink , and , as I am a living man , Robert , he wrote me a cheque then and there for two thousand two hundred pounds . I do n't know what I said ; I felt like a fool ; I could not stammer out words with which to thank him . All my troubles have been taken from my shoulders in an instant , and indeed , Robert , I can hardly realise it . `` `` He must be a most charitable man . `` `` Extraordinarily so . And so unpretending . One would think that it was I who was doing the favour and he who was the beggar . I thought of that passage about making the heart of the widow sing for joy . He made my heart sing for joy , I can tell you . Are you coming up to the Vicarage ? `` `` No , thank you , Mr. Spurling . I must go home and get to work on my new picture . It 's a five-foot canvas -- -the landing of the Romans in Kent . I must have another try for the Academy . Good-morning . `` He raised his hat and continued down the road , while the vicar turned off into the path which