the plain below arrested our attention.A man in white clothes , who could only be the surviving half-breed , was running as one does run when Death is the pacemaker . Behind him , only a few yards in his rear , bounded the huge ebony figure of Zambo , our devoted negro . Even as we looked , he sprang upon the back of the fugitive and flung his arms round his neck . They rolled on the ground together . An instant afterwards Zambo rose , looked at the prostrate man , and then , waving his hand joyously to us , came running in our direction . The white figure lay motionless in the middle of the great plain.Our two traitors had been destroyed , but the mischief that they had done lived after them . By no possible means could we get back to the pinnacle . We had been natives of the world ; now we were natives of the plateau . The two things were separate and apart . There was the plain which led to the canoes . Yonder , beyond the violet , hazy horizon , was the stream which led back to civilization . But the link between was missing . No human ingenuity could suggest a means of bridging the chasm which yawned between ourselves and our past lives . One instant had altered the whole conditions of our existence.It was at such a moment that I learned the stuff of which my three comrades were composed . They were grave , it is true , and thoughtful , but of an invincible serenity . For the moment we could only sit among the bushes in patience and wait the coming of Zambo . Presently his honest black face topped the rocks and his Herculean figure emerged upon the top of the pinnacle . `` What I do now ? '' he cried . `` You tell me and I do it . `` It was a question which it was easier to ask than to answer . One thing only was clear . He was our one trusty link with the outside world . On no account must he leave us . `` No no ! '' he cried . `` I not leave you . Whatever come , you always find me here . But no able to keep Indians . Already they say too much Curupuri live on this place , and they go home . Now you leave them me no able to keep them . `` It was a fact that our Indians had shown in many ways of late that they were weary of their journey and anxious to return . We realized that Zambo spoke the truth , and that it would be impossible for him to keep them . `` Make them wait till to-morrow , Zambo , '' I shouted ; `` then I can send letter back by them . `` `` Very good , sarr ! I promise they wait till to-morrow , '' said the negro . `` But what I do for you now ? `` There was plenty for him to do , and admirably the faithful fellow did it . First of all , under our directions , he undid the rope from the tree-stump and threw one end of it across to us . It was not thicker than a clothes-line , but it was of great strength , and though we could not make a bridge of it , we might well find it invaluable if we had any climbing to do . He then fastened his end of the rope to the package of supplies which had been carried up , and we were able to drag it across . This gave us the means of life for at least a week , even if we found nothing else . Finally he descended and carried up two other packets of mixed goods -- -a box of ammunition and a number of other things , all of which we got across by throwing our rope to him and hauling it back . It was evening when he at last climbed down , with a final assurance that he would keep the Indians till next morning.And so it is that I have spent nearly the whole of this our first night upon the plateau writing up our experiences by the light of a single candle-lantern.We supped and camped at the very edge of the cliff , quenching our thirst with two bottles of Apollinaris which were in one of the cases . It is vital to us to find water , but I think even Lord John himself had had adventures enough for one day , and none of us felt inclined to make the first push into the unknown . We forbore to light a fire or to make any unnecessary sound.To-morrow ( or to-day , rather , for it is already dawn as I write ) we shall make our first venture into this strange land . When I shall be able to write again -- -or if I ever shall write again -- -I know not . Meanwhile , I can see that the Indians are still in their place , and I am sure that the faithful Zambo will be here presently to get my letter . I only trust that it will come to hand.P.S. -- -The more I think the more desperate does our position seem . I see no possible hope of our return . If there were a high tree near the edge of the plateau we might drop a return bridge across , but there is none within fifty yards . Our united strength could not carry a trunk which would serve our purpose . The rope , of course , is far too short that we could descend by it . No , our position is hopeless -- -hopeless ! The most wonderful things have happened and are continually happening to us . All the paper that I possess consists of five old note-books and a lot of scraps , and I have only the one stylographic pencil ; but so long as I can move my hand I will continue to set down our experiences and impressions , for , since we are the only men of the whole human race to see such things , it is of enormous importance that I should record them whilst they are fresh in my memory and before that fate which seems to be constantly impending does actually overtake us . Whether Zambo can at last take these letters to the river , or whether I shall myself in some miraculous way carry them back with me , or , finally , whether some daring explorer , coming upon our tracks with the advantage , perhaps , of a perfected monoplane , should find this bundle of manuscript , in any case I can see that what I am writing is destined to immortality as a classic of true adventure.On the morning after our being trapped upon the plateau by the villainous Gomez we began a new stage in our experiences . The first incident in it was not such as to give me a very favorable opinion of the place to which we had wandered . As I roused myself from a short nap after day had dawned , my eyes fell upon a most singular appearance upon my own leg . My trouser had slipped up , exposing a few inches of my skin above my sock . On this there rested a large , purplish grape . Astonished at the sight , I leaned forward to pick it off , when , to my horror , it burst between my finger and thumb , squirting blood in every direction . My cry of disgust had brought the two professors to my side . `` Most interesting , '' said Summerlee , bending over my shin . `` An enormous blood-tick , as yet , I believe , unclassified . `` `` The first-fruits of our labors , '' said Challenger in his booming , pedantic fashion . `` We can not do less than call it Ixodes Maloni . The very small inconvenience of being bitten , my young friend , can not , I am sure , weigh with you as against the glorious privilege of having your name inscribed in the deathless roll of zoology . Unhappily you have crushed this fine specimen at the moment of satiation . `` `` Filthy vermin ! '' I cried.Professor Challenger raised his great eyebrows in protest , and placed a soothing paw upon my shoulder . `` You should cultivate the scientific eye and the detached scientific mind , '' said he . `` To a man of philosophic temperament like myself the blood-tick , with its lancet-like proboscis and its distending stomach , is as beautiful a work of Nature as the peacock or , for that matter , the aurora borealis . It pains me to hear you speak of it in so unappreciative a fashion . No doubt , with due diligence , we can secure some other specimen . `` `` There can be no doubt of that , '' said Summerlee , grimly , `` for one has just disappeared behind your shirt-collar . `` Challenger sprang into the air bellowing like a bull , and tore frantically at his coat and shirt to get them off . Summerlee and I laughed so that we could hardly help him . At last we exposed that monstrous torso ( fifty-four inches , by the tailor 's tape ) . His body was all matted with black hair , out of which jungle we picked the wandering tick before it had bitten him . But the bushes round were full of the horrible pests , and it was clear that we must shift our camp.But first of all it was necessary to make our arrangements with the faithful negro , who appeared presently on the pinnacle with a number of tins of cocoa and biscuits , which he tossed over to us . Of the stores which remained below he was ordered to retain as much as would keep him for two months . The Indians were to have the remainder as a reward for their services and as payment for taking our letters back to the Amazon . Some hours later we saw them in single file far out upon the plain , each with a bundle on his head , making their way back along the path we had come . Zambo occupied our little tent at the base of the pinnacle , and there he remained , our one link with the world below.And now we had to decide upon our immediate movements . We shifted our position from among the tick-laden bushes until we came to a small clearing thickly surrounded by trees upon all sides . There were some flat slabs of rock in the center , with an excellent well close by , and there we sat in cleanly comfort while we made our first plans for the invasion of this new country . Birds were calling among the foliage -- -especially one with a peculiar whooping cry which was new to us -- -but beyond these sounds there were no signs of life.Our first care was to make some sort of list of our own stores , so that we might know what we had to rely upon . What with the things we had ourselves brought up and those which Zambo had sent across on the rope , we were fairly well supplied . Most important of all , in view of the dangers which might surround us , we had our