resolution , which I have today for the first time broken . `` `` But your secret is safe with me , '' cried Robert . `` My lips shall be sealed until I have your permission to speak . `` `` If I had not known that I could trust you I should have withheld it from your knowledge . And now , my dear Robert , theory is very weak work , and practice is infinitely more interesting . I have given you more than enough of the first . If you will be good enough to accompany me to the laboratory I shall give you a little of the latter . `` Raffles Haw led the way through the front door , and crossing over the gravelled drive pushed open the outer door of the laboratory -- -the same through which the McIntyres had seen the packages conveyed from the waggon . On passing through it Robert found that they were not really within the building , but merely in a large bare ante-chamber , around the walls of which were stacked the very objects which had aroused his curiosity and his father 's speculations . All mystery had gone from them now , however , for while some were still wrapped in their sackcloth coverings , others had been undone , and revealed themselves as great pigs of lead . `` There is my raw material , '' said Raffles Haw carelessly , nodding at the heap . `` Every Saturday I have a waggon-load sent up , which serves me for a week , but we shall need to work double tides when Laura and I are married , and we get our great schemes under way . I have to be very careful about the quality of the lead , for , of course , every impurity is reproduced in the gold . `` A heavy iron door led into the inner chamber . Haw unlocked it , but only to disclose a second one about five feet further on . `` This flooring is all disconnected at night , '' he remarked . `` I have no doubt that there is a good deal of gossip in the servants'-hall about this sealed chamber , so I have to guard myself against some inquisitive ostler or too adventurous butler . `` The inner door admitted them into the laboratory , a high , bare , whitewashed room with a glass roof . At one end was the furnace and boiler , the iron mouth of which was closed , though the fierce red light beat through the cracks , and a dull roar sounded through the building . On either side innumerable huge Leyden jars stood ranged in rows , tier topping tier , while above them were columns of Voltaic cells . Robert 's eyes , as he glanced around , lit on vast wheels , complicated networks of wire , stands , test-tubes , coloured bottles , graduated glasses , Bunsen burners , porcelain insulators , and all the varieddebrisof a chemical and electrical workshop . `` Come across here , '' said Raffles Haw , picking his way among the heaps of metal , the coke , the packing-cases , and the carboys of acid . `` Yours is the first foot except my own which has ever penetrated to this room since the workmen left it . My servants carry the lead into the ante-room , but come no further . The furnace can be cleaned and stoked from without . I employ a fellow to do nothing else . Now take a look in here . `` He threw open a door on the further side , and motioned to the young artist to enter . The latter stood silent with one foot over the threshold , staring in amazement around him . The room , which may have been some thirty feet square , was paved and walled with gold . Great brick-shaped ingots , closely packed , covered the whole floor , while on every side they were reared up in compact barriers to the very ceiling . The single electric lamp which lighted the windowless chamber struck a dull , murky , yellow light from the vast piles of precious metal , and gleamed ruddily upon the golden floor . `` This is my treasure house , '' remarked the owner . `` You see that I have rather an accumulation just now . My imports have been exceeding my exports . You can understand that I have other and more important duties even than the making of gold , just now . This is where I store my output until I am ready to send it off . Every night almost I am in the habit of sending a case of it to London . I employ seventeen brokers in its sale . Each thinks that he is the only one , and each is dying to know where I can get such large quantities of virgin gold . They say that it is the purest which comes into the market . The popular theory is , I believe , that I am a middleman acting on behalf of some new South African mine , which wishes to keep its whereabouts a secret . What value would you put upon the gold in this chamber ? It ought to be worth something , for it represents nearly a week 's work . `` `` Something fabulous , I have no doubt , '' said Robert , glancing round at the yellow barriers . `` Shall I say a hundred and fifty thousand pounds ? `` `` Oh dear me , it is surely worth very much more than that , '' cried Raffles Haw , laughing . `` Let me see . Suppose that we put it at three ten an ounce , which is nearly ten shillings under the mark . That makes , roughly , fifty-six pounds for a pound in weight . Now each of these ingots weighs thirty-six pounds , which brings their value to two thousand and a few odd pounds . There are five hundred ingots on each of these three sides of the room , but on the fourth there are only three hundred , on account of the door , but there can not be less than two hundred on the floor , which gives us a rough total of two thousand ingots . So you see , my dear boy , that any broker who could get the contents of this chamber for four million pounds would be doing a nice little stroke of business . `` `` And a week 's work ! '' gasped Robert . `` It makes my head swim . `` `` You will follow me now when I repeat that none of the great schemes which I intend to simultaneously set in motion are at all likely to languish for want of funds . Now come into the laboratory with me and see how it is done . `` In the centre of the workroom was an instrument like a huge vice , with two large brass-coloured plates , and a great steel screw for bringing them together . Numerous wires ran into these metal plates , and were attached at the other end to the rows of dynamic machines . Beneath was a glass stand , which was hollowed out in the centre into a succession of troughs . `` You will soon understand all about it , '' said Raffles Haw , throwing off his coat , and pulling on a smoke-stained and dirty linen jacket . `` We must first stoke up a little . '' He put his weight on a pair of great bellows , and an answering roar came from the furnace . `` That will do . The more heat the more electric force , and the quicker our task . Now for the lead ! Just give me a hand in carrying it . `` They lifted a dozen of the pigs of lead from the floor on to the glass stand , and having adjusted the plates on either side , Haw screwed up the handle so as to hold them in position . `` It used in the early days to be a slow process , '' he remarked ; `` but now that I have immense facilities for my work it takes a very short time . I have now only to complete the connection in order to begin . `` He took hold of a long glass lever which projected from among the wires , and drew it downwards . A sharp click was heard , followed by a loud , sparkling , crackling noise . Great spurts of flame sprang from the two electrodes , and the mass of lead was surrounded by an aureole of golden sparks , which hissed and snapped like pistol-shots . The air was filled with the peculiar acid smell of ozone . `` The power there is immense , '' said Raffles Haw , superintending the process , with his watch upon the palm of his hand . `` It would reduce an organic substance to protyle instantly . It is well to understand the mechanism thoroughly , for any mistake might be a grave matter for the operator . You are dealing with gigantic forces . But you perceive that the lead is already beginning to turn . `` Silvery dew-like drops had indeed begun to form upon the dull-coloured mass , and to drop with a tinkle and splash into the glass troughs . Slowly the lead melted away , like an icicle in the sun , the electrodes ever closing upon it as it contracted , until they came together in the centre , and a row of pools of quicksilver had taken the place of the solid metal . Two smaller electrodes were plunged into the mercury , which gradually curdled and solidified , until it had resumed the solid form , with a yellowish brassy shimmer . `` What lies in the moulds now is platinum , '' remarked Raffles Haw . `` We must take it from the troughs and refix it in the large electrodes . So ! Now we turn on the current again . You see that it gradually takes a darker and richer tint . Now I think that it is perfect . '' He drew up the lever , removed the electrodes , and there lay a dozen bricks of ruddy sparkling gold . `` You see , according to our calculations , our morning 's work has been worth twenty-four thousand pounds , and it has not taken us more than twenty minutes , '' remarked the alchemist , as he picked up the newly-made ingots , and threw them down among the others . `` We will devote one of them to experiment , '' said he , leaving the last standing upon the glass insulator . `` To the world it would seem an expensive demonstration which cost two thousand pounds , but our standard , you see , is a different one . Now you will see me run through the whole gamut of metallic nature . `` First of all men after the discoverer , Robert saw the gold mass , when the electrodes were again applied to it , change swiftly and successively to barium , to tin , to silver , to copper , to iron . He saw the long white electric sparks change to crimson with the strontium , to purple with the potassium , to yellow with the manganese . Then , finally , after a hundred transformations , it disintegrated before his eyes , and lay as a little