through . Tell him that we 've got a country where he 'll just fit in like a bung in a barrel . Tell him that religion is free to all there , and not a papist nearer than Baltimore or the Capuchins of the Penobscot . Tell him that if he wants to come , theGolden Rodis waiting with her anchor apeak and her cargo aboard . Tell him what you like , so long as you make him come . `` `` Then we must come at once , '' said De Catinat , as he listened to the cordial message which was conveyed to his uncle . `` To-night the orders will be out , and to-morrow it may be too late . `` `` But my business ! '' cried the merchant . `` Take what valuables you can , and leave the rest . Better that than lose all , and liberty into the bargain . `` And so at last it was arranged . That very night , within five minutes of the closing of the gates , there passed out of Paris a small party of five , three upon horseback , and two in a closed carriage which bore several weighty boxes upon the top . They were the first leaves flying before the hurricane , the earliest of that great multitude who were within the next few months to stream along every road which led from France , finding their journey 's end too often in galley , dungeon and torture chamber , and yet flooding over the frontiers in numbers sufficient to change the industries and modify the characters of all the neighbouring peoples . Like the Israelites of old , they had been driven from their homes at the bidding of an angry king , who , even while he exiled them , threw every difficulty in the way of their departure . Like them , too , there were none of them who could hope to reach their promised land without grievous wanderings , penniless , friendless , and destitute . What passages befell these pilgrims in their travels , what dangers they met , and overcame in the land of the Swiss , on the Rhine , among the Walloons , in England , in Ireland , in Berlin , and even in far-off Russia , has still to be written . This one little group , however , whom we know , we may follow in their venturesome journey , and see the chances which befell them upon that great continent which had lain fallow for so long , sown only with the weeds of humanity , but which was now at last about to quicken into such glorious life.Thanks to the early tidings which the guardsman had brought with him , his little party was now ahead of the news . As they passed through the village of Louvier in the early morning they caught a glimpse of a naked corpse upon a dunghill , and were told by a grinning watchman that it was that of a Huguenot who had died impenitent , but that was a common enough occurrence already , and did not mean that there had been any change in the law . At Rouen all was quiet , and Captain Ephraim Savage before evening had brought both them and such property as they had saved aboard of his brigantine , the Golden Rod . It was but a little craft , some seventy tons burden , but at a time when so many were putting out to sea in open boats , preferring the wrath of Nature to that of the king , it was a refuge indeed . The same night the seaman drew up his anchor and began to slowly make his way down the winding river.And very slow work it was . There was half a moon shining and a breeze from the east , but the stream writhed and twisted and turned until sometimes they seemed to be sailing up rather than down . In the long reaches they set the yard square and ran , but often they had to lower their two boats and warp her painfully along , Tomlinson of Salem , the mate , and six grave , tobacco-chewing , New England seamen with their broad palmetto hats , tugging and straining at the oars . Amos Green , De Catinat , and even the old merchant had to take their spell ere morning , when the sailors were needed aboard for the handling of the canvas . At last , however , with the early dawn the river broadened out and each bank trended away , leaving a long funnel-shaped estuary between . Ephraim Savage snuffed the air and paced the deck briskly with a twinkle in his keen gray eyes . The wind had fallen away , but there was still enough to drive them slowly upon their course . `` Where 's the gal ? '' he asked . `` She is in my cabin , '' said Amos Green . `` I thought that maybe she could manage there until we got across . `` `` Where will you sleep yourself , then ? `` `` Tut , a litter of spruce boughs and a sheet of birch bark over me have been enough all these years . What would I ask better than this deck of soft white pine and my blanket ? `` `` Very good . The old man and his nephew , him with the blue coat , can have the two empty bunks . But you must speak to that man , Amos . I 'll have no philandering aboard my ship , lad -- -no whispering or cuddling or any such foolishness . Tell him that this ship is just a bit broke off from Boston , and he 'll have to put up with Boston ways until he gets off her . They 've been good enough for better men than him . You give me the French for 'no philandering , ' and I 'll bring him up with a round turn when he drifts . `` `` It 's a pity we left so quick or they might have been married before we started . She 's a good girl , Ephraim , and he is a fine man , for all that their ways are not the same as ours . They do n't seem to take life so hard as we , and maybe they get more pleasure out of it . `` `` I never heard tell that we were put here to get pleasure out of it , '' said the old Puritan , shaking his head . `` The valley of the shadow of death do n't seem to me to be the kind o ' name one would give to a play-ground . It is a trial and a chastening , that 's what it is , the gall of bitterness and the bond of iniquity . We 're bad from the beginning , like a stream that runs from a tamarack swamp , and we 've enough to do to get ourselves to rights without any fool 's talk about pleasure . `` `` It seems to me to be all mixed up , '' said Amos . `` like the fat and the lean in a bag of pemmican . Look at that sun just pushing its edge over the trees , and see the pink flush on the clouds and the river like a rosy ribbon behind us . It 's mighty pretty to our eyes , and very pleasing to us , and it would n't be so to my mind if the Creator had n't wanted it to be . Many a time when I have lain in the woods in the fall and smoked my pipe , and felt how good the tobacco was , and how bright the yellow maples were , and the purple ash , and the red tupelo blazing among the bushwood , I 've felt that the real fool 's talk was with the man who could doubt that all this was meant to make the world happier for us . `` `` You 've been thinking too much in them woods , '' said Ephraim Savage , gazing at him uneasily . `` Do n't let your sail be too great for your boat , lad , nor trust to your own wisdom . Your father was from the Bay , and you were raised from a stock that cast the dust of England from their feet rather than bow down to Baal . Keep a grip on the word and do n't think beyond it . But what is the matter with the old man ? He do n't seem easy in his mind . `` The old merchant had been leaning over the bulwarks , looking back with a drawn face and weary eyes at the red curving track behind them which marked the path to Paris . Adele had come up now , with not a thought to spare upon the dangers and troubles which lay in front of her as she chafed the old man 's thin cold hands , and whispered words of love and comfort into his ears . But they had come to the point where the gentle still-flowing river began for the first time to throb to the beat of the sea . The old man gazed forward with horror at the bowsprit as he saw it rise slowly upwards into the air , and clung frantically at the rail as it seemed to slip away from beneath him . `` We are always in the hollow of God 's hand , '' he whispered , `` but oh , Adele , it is a dreadful thing to feel His fingers moving under us . `` `` Come with me , uncle , '' said De Catinat , passing his arm under that of the old man . `` It is long since you have rested . And you , Adele , I pray that you will go and sleep , my poor darling , for it has been a weary journey . Go now , to please me , and when you wake , both France and your troubles will lie behind you . `` When father and daughter had left the deck , De Catinat made his way aft again to where Amos Green and the captain were standing . `` I am glad to get them below , Amos , '' said he , `` for I fear that we may have trouble yet . `` `` And how ? `` `` You see the white road which runs by the southern bank of the river . Twice within the last half-hour I have seen horsemen spurring for dear life along it . Where the spires and smoke are yonder is Honfleur , and thither it was that these men went . I know not who could ride so madly at such an hour unless they were the messengers of the king . Oh , see , there is a third one ! `` On the white band which wound among the green meadows a black dot could be seen which moved along with great rapidity , vanished behind a clump of trees , and then reappeared again , making for the distant city . Captain Savage drew out his glass and gazed at the rider . `` Ay , ay , '' said he , as he snapped it up again . `` It is a soldier , sure enough . I can see the glint of the scabbard which he carries on his larboard side . I think