the clang of the rising portcullis . Pressing the veil to his lips , he thrust it into the bosom of his tunic , and rushed as fast as feet could bear him to arm himself and join the muster.The raw morning had broken ere the hot spiced ale had been served round and the last farewell spoken . A cold wind blew up from the sea and ragged clouds drifted swiftly across the sky.The Christchurch townsfolk stood huddled about the Bridge of Avon , the women pulling tight their shawls and the men swathing themselves in their gaberdines , while down the winding path from the castle came the van of the little army , their feet clanging on the hard , frozen road . First came Black Simon with his banner , bestriding a lean and powerful dapple-gray charger , as hard and wiry and warwise as himself . After him , riding three abreast , were nine men-at-arms , all picked soldiers , who had followed the French wars before , and knew the marches of Picardy as they knew the downs of their native Hampshire . They were armed to the teeth with lance , sword , and mace , with square shields notched at the upper right-hand corner to serve as a spear-rest . For defence each man wore a coat of interlaced leathern thongs , strengthened at the shoulder , elbow , and upper arm with slips of steel . Greaves and knee-pieces were also of leather backed by steel , and their gauntlets and shoes were of iron plates , craftily jointed . So , with jingle of arms and clatter of hoofs , they rode across the Bridge of Avon , while the burghers shouted lustily for the flag of the five roses and its gallant guard.Close at the heels of the horses came two-score archers bearded and burly , their round targets on their backs and their long yellow bows , the most deadly weapon that the wit of man had yet devised , thrusting forth from behind their shoulders . From each man 's girdle hung sword or axe , according to his humor , and over the right hip there jutted out the leathern quiver with its bristle of goose , pigeon , and peacock feathers . Behind the bowmen strode two trumpeters blowing upon nakirs , and two drummers in parti-colored clothes . After them came twenty-seven sumpter horses carrying tent-poles , cloth , spare arms , spurs , wedges , cooking kettles , horse-shoes , bags of nails and the hundred other things which experience had shown to be needful in a harried and hostile country . A white mule with red trappings , led by a varlet , carried Sir Nigel 's own napery and table comforts . Then came two-score more archers , ten more men-at-arms , and finally a rear guard of twenty bowmen , with big John towering in the front rank and the veteran Aylward marching by the side , his battered harness and faded surcoat in strange contrast with the snow-white jupons and shining brigandines of his companions . A quick cross-fire of greetings and questions and rough West Saxon jests flew from rank to rank , or were bandied about betwixt the marching archers and the gazing crowd . `` Hola , Gaffer Higginson ! '' cried Aylward , as he spied the portly figure of the village innkeeper . `` No more of thy nut-brown , mon gar . We leave it behind us . `` `` By St. Paul , no ! '' cried the other . `` You take it with you . Devil a drop have you left in the great kilderkin . It was time for you to go . `` `` If your cask is leer , I warrant your purse is full , gaffer , '' shouted Hordle John . `` See that you lay in good store of the best for our home-coming . `` `` See that you keep your throat whole for the drinking of it archer , '' cried a voice , and the crowd laughed at the rough pleasantry . `` If you will warrant the beer , I will warrant the throat , '' said John composedly . `` Close up the ranks ! '' cried Aylward . `` En avant , mes enfants ! Ah , by my finger bones , there is my sweet Mary from the Priory Mill ! Ma foi , but she is beautiful ! Adieu , Mary ma cherie ! Mon coeur est toujours a toi . Brace your belt , Watkins , man , and swing your shoulders as a free companion should . By my hilt ! your jerkins will be as dirty as mine ere you clap eyes on Hengistbury Head again . `` The Company had marched to the turn of the road ere Sir Nigel Loring rode out from the gateway , mounted on Pommers , his great black war-horse , whose ponderous footfall on the wooden drawbridge echoed loudly from the gloomy arch which spanned it . Sir Nigel was still in his velvet dress of peace , with flat velvet cap of maintenance , and curling ostrich feather clasped in a golden brooch . To his three squires riding behind him it looked as though he bore the bird 's egg as well as its feather , for the back of his bald pate shone like a globe of ivory . He bore no arms save the long and heavy sword which hung at his saddle-bow ; but Terlake carried in front of him the high wivern-crested bassinet , Ford the heavy ash spear with swallow-tail pennon , while Alleyne was entrusted with the emblazoned shield . The Lady Loring rode her palfrey at her lord 's bridle-arm , for she would see him as far as the edge of the forest , and ever and anon she turned her hard-lined face up wistfully to him and ran a questioning eye over his apparel and appointments . `` I trust that there is nothing forgot , '' she said , beckoning to Alleyne to ride on her further side . `` I trust him to you , Edricson . Hosen , shirts , cyclas , and under-jupons are in the brown basket on the left side of the mule . His wine he takes hot when the nights are cold , malvoisie or vernage , with as much spice as would cover the thumb-nail . See that he hath a change if he come back hot from the tilting . There is goose-grease in a box , if the old scars ache at the turn of the weather . Let his blankets be dry and -- -- -- '' '' Nay , my heart 's life , '' the little knight interrupted , `` trouble not now about such matters . Why so pale and wan , Edricson ? Is it not enow to make a man 's heart dance to see this noble Company , such valiant men-at-arms , such lusty archers ? By St. Paul ! I would be ill to please if I were not blithe to see the red roses flying at the head of so noble a following ! `` `` The purse I have already given you , Edricson , '' continued the lady . `` There are in it twenty-three marks , one noble , three shillings and fourpence , which is a great treasure for one man to carry . And I pray you to bear in mind , Edricson , that he hath two pair of shoes , those of red leather for common use , and the others with golden toe-chains , which he may wear should he chance to drink wine with the Prince or with Chandos . `` `` My sweet bird , '' said Sir Nigel , `` I am right loth to part from you , but we are now at the fringe of the forest , and it is not right that I should take the chatelaine too far from her trust . `` `` But oh , my dear lord , '' she cried with a trembling lip , `` let me bide with you for one furlong further -- -or one and a half perhaps . You may spare me this out of the weary miles that you will journey along . `` `` Come , then , my heart 's comfort , '' he answered . `` But I must crave a gage from thee . It is my custom , dearling , and hath been since I have first known thee , to proclaim by herald in such camps , townships , or fortalices as I may chance to visit , that my lady-love , being beyond compare the fairest and sweetest in Christendom , I should deem it great honor and kindly condescension if any cavalier would run three courses against me with sharpened lances , should he chance to have a lady whose claim he was willing to advance . I pray you then my fair dove , that you will vouchsafe to me one of those doeskin gloves , that I may wear it as the badge of her whose servant I shall ever be . `` `` Alack and alas for the fairest and sweetest ! '' she cried . `` Fair and sweet I would fain be for your dear sake , my lord , but old I am and ugly , and the knights would laugh should you lay lance in rest in such a cause . `` `` Edricson , '' quoth Sir Nigel , `` you have young eyes , and mine are somewhat bedimmed . Should you chance to see a knight laugh , or smile , or even , look you , arch his brows , or purse his mouth , or in any way show surprise that I should uphold the Lady Mary , you will take particular note of his name , his coat-armor , and his lodging . Your glove , my life 's desire ! `` The Lady Mary Loring slipped her hand from her yellow leather gauntlet , and he , lifting it with dainty reverence , bound it to the front of his velvet cap . `` It is with mine other guardian angels , '' quoth he , pointing at the saints ' medals which hung beside it . `` And now , my dearest , you have come far enow . May the Virgin guard and prosper thee ! One kiss ! '' He bent down from his saddle , and then , striking spurs into his horse 's sides , he galloped at top speed after his men , with his three squires at his heels . Half a mile further , where the road topped a hill , they looked back , and the Lady Mary on her white palfrey was still where they had left her . A moment later they were on the downward slope , and she had vanished from their view.For a time Sir Nigel was very moody and downcast , with bent brows and eyes upon the pommel of his saddle . Edricson and Terlake rode behind him in little better case , while Ford , a careless and light-hearted youth , grinned at the melancholy of his companions , and flourished his lord 's heavy spear , making a point to right and a point to left , as though he were a paladin contending against a host of assailants . Sir Nigel happened , however , to turn himself in his saddle -- -Ford instantly became as stiff and as rigid as though he had been struck with a palsy . The four rode alone , for the