rifle , I gave a cry of joy as in the cold gray light I saw Lord John Roxton kneeling beside me.It was he -- -and yet it was not he . I had left him calm in his bearing , correct in his person , prim in his dress . Now he was pale and wild-eyed , gasping as he breathed like one who has run far and fast . His gaunt face was scratched and bloody , his clothes were hanging in rags , and his hat was gone . I stared in amazement , but he gave me no chance for questions . He was grabbing at our stores all the time he spoke . `` Quick , young fellah ! Quick ! '' he cried . `` Every moment counts . Get the rifles , both of them . I have the other two . Now , all the cartridges you can gather . Fill up your pockets . Now , some food . Half a dozen tins will do . That 's all right ! Do n't wait to talk or think . Get a move on , or we are done ! `` Still half-awake , and unable to imagine what it all might mean , I found myself hurrying madly after him through the wood , a rifle under each arm and a pile of various stores in my hands . He dodged in and out through the thickest of the scrub until he came to a dense clump of brush-wood . Into this he rushed , regardless of thorns , and threw himself into the heart of it , pulling me down by his side. '' There ! '' he panted . `` I think we are safe here . They 'll make for the camp as sure as fate . It will be their first idea . But this should puzzle 'em . `` `` What is it all ? '' I asked , when I had got my breath . `` Where are the professors ? And who is it that is after us ? `` `` The ape-men , '' he cried . `` My God , what brutes ! Do n't raise your voice , for they have long ears -- -sharp eyes , too , but no power of scent , so far as I could judge , so I do n't think they can sniff us out . Where have you been , young fellah ? You were well out of it . `` In a few sentences I whispered what I had done . `` Pretty bad , '' said he , when he had heard of the dinosaur and the pit . `` It is n't quite the place for a rest cure . What ? But I had no idea what its possibilities were until those devils got hold of us . The man-eatin ' Papuans had me once , but they are Chesterfields compared to this crowd . `` `` How did it happen ? '' I asked . `` It was in the early mornin ' . Our learned friends were just stirrin ' . Had n't even begun to argue yet . Suddenly it rained apes . They came down as thick as apples out of a tree . They had been assemblin ' in the dark , I suppose , until that great tree over our heads was heavy with them . I shot one of them through the belly , but before we knew where we were they had us spread-eagled on our backs . I call them apes , but they carried sticks and stones in their hands and jabbered talk to each other , and ended up by tyin ' our hands with creepers , so they are ahead of any beast that I have seen in my wanderin 's . Ape-men -- -that 's what they are -- -Missin ' Links , and I wish they had stayed missin ' . They carried off their wounded comrade -- -he was bleedin ' like a pig -- -and then they sat around us , and if ever I saw frozen murder it was in their faces . They were big fellows , as big as a man and a deal stronger . Curious glassy gray eyes they have , under red tufts , and they just sat and gloated and gloated . Challenger is no chicken , but even he was cowed . He managed to struggle to his feet , and yelled out at them to have done with it and get it over . I think he had gone a bit off his head at the suddenness of it , for he raged and cursed at them like a lunatic . If they had been a row of his favorite Pressmen he could not have slanged them worse . `` `` Well , what did they do ? '' I was enthralled by the strange story which my companion was whispering into my ear , while all the time his keen eyes were shooting in every direction and his hand grasping his cocked rifle . `` I thought it was the end of us , but instead of that it started them on a new line . They all jabbered and chattered together . Then one of them stood out beside Challenger . You 'll smile , young fellah , but 'pon my word they might have been kinsmen . I could n't have believed it if I had n't seen it with my own eyes . This old ape-man -- -he was their chief -- -was a sort of red Challenger , with every one of our friend 's beauty points , only just a trifle more so . He had the short body , the big shoulders , the round chest , no neck , a great ruddy frill of a beard , the tufted eyebrows , the 'What do you want , damn you ! ' look about the eyes , and the whole catalogue . When the ape-man stood by Challenger and put his paw on his shoulder , the thing was complete . Summerlee was a bit hysterical , and he laughed till he cried . The ape-men laughed too -- -or at least they put up the devil of a cacklin ' -- -and they set to work to drag us off through the forest . They would n't touch the guns and things -- -thought them dangerous , I expect -- -but they carried away all our loose food . Summerlee and I got some rough handlin ' on the way -- -there 's my skin and my clothes to prove it -- -for they took us a bee-line through the brambles , and their own hides are like leather . But Challenger was all right . Four of them carried him shoulder high , and he went like a Roman emperor . What 's that ? `` It was a strange clicking noise in the distance not unlike castanets . `` There they go ! '' said my companion , slipping cartridges into the second double barrelled `` Express . '' `` Load them all up , young fellah my lad , for we 're not going to be taken alive , and do n't you think it ! That 's the row they make when they are excited . By George ! they 'll have something to excite them if they put us up . The 'Last Stand of the Grays ' wo n't be in it . 'With their rifles grasped in their stiffened hands , mid a ring of the dead and dyin ' , ' as some fathead sings . Can you hear them now ? `` `` Very far away . `` `` That little lot will do no good , but I expect their search parties are all over the wood . Well , I was telling you my tale of woe . They got us soon to this town of theirs -- -about a thousand huts of branches and leaves in a great grove of trees near the edge of the cliff . It 's three or four miles from here . The filthy beasts fingered me all over , and I feel as if I should never be clean again . They tied us up -- -the fellow who handled me could tie like a bosun -- -and there we lay with our toes up , beneath a tree , while a great brute stood guard over us with a club in his hand . When I say 'we ' I mean Summerlee and myself . Old Challenger was up a tree , eatin ' pines and havin ' the time of his life . I 'm bound to say that he managed to get some fruit to us , and with his own hands he loosened our bonds . If you 'd seen him sitting up in that tree hob-nobbin ' with his twin brother -- -and singin ' in that rollin ' bass of his , 'Ring out , wild bells , ' cause music of any kind seemed to put 'em in a good humor , you 'd have smiled ; but we were n't in much mood for laughin ' , as you can guess . They were inclined , within limits , to let him do what he liked , but they drew the line pretty sharply at us . It was a mighty consolation to us all to know that you were runnin ' loose and had the archives in your keepin ' . `` Well , now , young fellah , I 'll tell you what will surprise you . You say you saw signs of men , and fires , traps , and the like . Well , we have seen the natives themselves . Poor devils they were , down-faced little chaps , and had enough to make them so . It seems that the humans hold one side of this plateau -- -over yonder , where you saw the caves -- -and the ape-men hold this side , and there is bloody war between them all the time . That 's the situation , so far as I could follow it . Well , yesterday the ape-men got hold of a dozen of the humans and brought them in as prisoners . You never heard such a jabberin ' and shriekin ' in your life . The men were little red fellows , and had been bitten and clawed so that they could hardly walk . The ape-men put two of them to death there and then -- -fairly pulled the arm off one of them -- -it was perfectly beastly . Plucky little chaps they are , and hardly gave a squeak . But it turned us absolutely sick . Summerlee fainted , and even Challenger had as much as he could stand . I think they have cleared , do n't you ? `` We listened intently , but nothing save the calling of the birds broke the deep peace of the forest . Lord Roxton went on with his story . `` I think you have had the escape of your life , young fellah my lad . It was catchin ' those Indians that put you clean out of their heads , else they would have been back to the camp for you as sure as fate and gathered you in . Of course , as you said , they have been watchin ' us from the beginnin ' out of that tree , and they knew perfectly well that we were one short . However , they could think only of this new haul ; so it was I , and not a