see not only the places of interest , but something also of that motley population which made the town so different to all others save only its younger sister , Montreal . Passing and repassing along the steep path with the picket fence which connected the two quarters , they saw the whole panorama of Canadian life moving before their eyes , the soldiers with their slouched hats , their plumes , and their bandoleers , habitants from the rivercotesin their rude peasant dresses , little changed from their forefathers of Brittany or Normandy , and young rufflers from France or from the seigneuries , who cocked their hats and swaggered in what they thought to be the true Versailles fashion . There , too , might be seen little knots of the men of the woods , coureurs-de-boisorvoyageurs , with leathern hunting tunics , fringed leggings , and fur cap with eagle feather , who came back once a year to the cities , leaving their Indian wives and children in some up-country wigwam . Redskins , too , were there , leather-faced Algonquin fishers and hunters , wild Micmacs from the east , and savage Abenakis from the south , while everywhere were the dark habits of the Franciscans , and the black cassocks and broad hats of the Recollets , and Jesuits , the moving spirits of the whole.Such were the folk who crowded the streets of the capital of this strange offshoot of France which had been planted along the line of the great river , a thousand leagues from the parent country . And it was a singular settlement , the most singular perhaps that has ever been made . For a long twelve hundred miles it extended , from Tadousac in the east , away to the trading stations upon the borders of the great lakes , limiting itself for the most part to narrow cultivated strips upon the margins of the river , banked in behind by wild forests and unexplored mountains , which forever tempted the peasant from his hoe and his plough to the freer life of the paddle and the musket . Thin scattered clearings , alternating with little palisaded clumps of log-hewn houses , marked the line where civilisation was forcing itself in upon the huge continent , and barely holding its own against the rigour of a northern climate and the ferocity of merciless enemies . The whole white population of this mighty district , including soldiers , priests , and woodmen , with all women and children , was very far short of twenty thousand souls , and yet so great was their energy , and such the advantage of the central government under which they lived , that they had left their trace upon the whole continent . When the prosperous English settlers were content to live upon their acres , and when no axe had rung upon the further side of the Alleghanies , the French had pushed their daring pioneers , some in the black robe of the missionary , and some in the fringed tunic of the hunter , to the uttermost ends of the continent . They had mapped out the lakes and had bartered with the fierce Sioux on the great plains where the wooden wigwam gave place to the hide tee-pee . Marquette had followed the Illinois down to the Mississippi , and had traced the course of the great river until , first of all white men , he looked upon the turbid flood of the rushing Missouri . La Salle had ventured even further , and had passed the Ohio , and had made his way to the Mexican Gulf , raising the French arms where the city of New Orleans was afterwards to stand . Others had pushed on to the Rocky Mountains , and to the huge wilderness of the north-west , preaching , bartering , cheating , baptising , swayed by many motives and holding only in common a courage which never faltered and a fertility of resource which took them in safety past every danger . Frenchmen were to the north of the British settlements , Frenchmen were to the west of them , and Frenchmen were to the south of them , and if all the continent is not now French , the fault assuredly did not rest with that iron race of early Canadians.All this De Catinat explained to Adele during the autumn day , trying to draw her thoughts away from the troubles of the past , and from the long dreary voyage which lay before her . She , fresh from the staid life of the Parisian street and from the tame scenery of the Seine , gazed with amazement at the river , the woods and the mountains , and clutched her husband 's arm in horror when a canoeful of wild skin-clad Algonquins , their faces striped with white and red paint , came flying past with the foam dashing from their paddles . Again the river turned from blue to pink , again the old citadel was bathed in the evening glow , and again the two exiles descended to their cabins with cheering words for each other and heavy thoughts in their own hearts.De Catinat 's bunk was next to a port-hole , and it was his custom to keep this open , as the caboose was close to him in which the cooking was done for the crew , and the air was hot and heavy . That night he found it impossible to sleep , and he lay tossing under his blanket , thinking over every possible means by which they might be able to get away from this cursed ship . But even if they got away , where could they go to then ? All Canada was sealed to them . The woods to the south were full of ferocious Indians . The English settlements would , it was true , grant them freedom to use their own religion , but what would his wife and he do , without a friend , strangers among folk who spoke another tongue ? Had Amos Green remained true to them , then , indeed , all would have been well . But he had deserted them . Of course there was no reason why he should not . He was no blood relation of theirs . He had already benefited them many times . His own people and the life that he loved were waiting for him at home . Why should he linger here for the sake of folk whom he had known but a few months ? It was not to be expected , and yet De Catinat could not realise it , could not understand it.But what was that ? Above the gentle lapping of the river he had suddenly heard a sharp clear `` Hist ! '' Perhaps it was some passing boatman or Indian . Then it came again , that eager , urgent summons . He sat up and stared about him . It certainly must have come from the open port-hole . He looked out , but only to see the broad basin , with the loom of the shipping , and the distant twinkle from the lights on Point Levi . As his head dropped back upon the pillow something fell upon his chest with a little tap , and rolling off , rattled along the boards . He sprang up , caught a lantern from a hook , and flashed it upon the floor . There was the missile which had struck him -- -a little golden brooch . As he lifted it up and looked closer at it , a thrill passed through him . It had been his own , and he had given it to Amos Green upon the second day that he had met him , when they were starting together for Versailles.This was a signal then , and Amos Green had not deserted them after all . He dressed himself , all in a tremble with excitement , and went upon deck . It was pitch dark , and he could see no one , but the sound of regular footfalls somewhere in the fore part of the ship showed that the sentinels were still there . The guardsman walked over to the side and peered down into the darkness . He could see the loom of a boat . `` Who is there ? '' he whispered . `` Is that you , De Catinat ? '' Yes . `` `` We have come for you . `` `` God bless you , Amos . `` `` Is your wife there ? `` `` No , but I can rouse her. '' '' Good ! But first catch this cord . Now pull up the ladder ! `` De Catinat gripped the line which was thrown to him , and on drawing it up found that it was attached to a rope ladder furnished at the top with two steel hooks to catch on to the bulwarks . He placed them in position , and then made his way very softly to the cabin amidships in the ladies ' quarters which had been allotted to his wife . She was the only woman aboard the ship now , so that he was able to tap at her door in safety , and to explain in a few words the need for haste and for secrecy . In ten minutes Adele had dressed , and with her valuables in a little bundle , had slipped out from her cabin . Together they made their way upon deck once more , and crept aft under the shadow of the bulwarks . They were almost there when De Catinat stopped suddenly and ground out an oath through his clenched teeth . Between them and the rope ladder there was standing in a dim patch of murky light the grim figure of a Franciscan friar . He was peering through the darkness , his heavy cowl shadowing his face , and he advanced slowly as if he had caught a glimpse of them . A lantern hung from the mizzen shrouds above him . He unfastened it and held it up to cast its light upon them.But De Catinat was not a man with whom it was safe to trifle . His life had been one of quick resolve and prompt action . Was this vindictive friar at the last moment to stand between him and freedom ? It was a dangerous position to take . The guardsman pulled Adele into the shadow of the mast , and then , as the monk advanced , he sprang out upon him and seized him by the gown . As he did so the other 's cowl was pushed back , and instead of the harsh features of the ecclesiastic , De Catinat saw with amazement in the glimmer of the lantern the shrewd gray eyes and strong tern face of Ephraim Savage . At the same instant another figure appeared over the side , and the warm-hearted Frenchman threw himself into the arms of Amos Green . `` It 's all right , '' said the young hunter , disengaging himself with some embarrassment from the other 's embrace . `` We 've got him in the boat with a buckskin glove jammed into his gullet ! `` `` Who then ? `` `` The man whose cloak Captain Ephraim there has put round him . He came on us when you were away rousing your lady , but we got him to be quiet between us . Is the lady there ? `` `` Here she is . `` `` As quick as you can , then , for some one may come