this picture , but it has had no good effect , because there are no beaver in it , and they have not painted in a tobacco-pipe . You see they have little reason , these poor folk , and so we have to teach them as best we can through their eyes and their foolish senses . This other is better . It has converted several squaws and more than one Indian . I shall not bring back the saved soul when I come in the spring , but I shall bring five damned souls , which will be one for each nation . We must fight Satan with such weapons as we can get , you see . And now , my children , if you must go , let me first call down a blessing upon you ! `` And then occurred a strange thing , for the beauty of this man 's soul shone through all the wretched clouds of sect , and , as he raised his hand to bless them , down went those Protestant knees to earth , and even old Ephraim found himself with a softened heart and a bent head listening to the half-understood words of this crippled , half-blinded , little stranger . `` Farewell , then , '' said he , when they had risen . `` May the sunshine of Saint Eulalie be upon you , and may Saint Anne of Beaupre shield you at the moment of your danger . `` And so they left him , a grotesque and yet heroic figure , staggering along through the woods with his tent , his pictures , and his mutilation . If the Church of Rome should ever be wrecked it may come from her weakness in high places , where all Churches are at their weakest , or it may be because with what is very narrow she tries to explain that which is very broad , but assuredly it will never be through the fault of her rank and file , for never upon earth have men and women spent themselves more lavishly and more splendidly than in her service.Leaving Fort St. Louis , whence the bells had sounded , upon their right , they pushed onwards as swiftly as they could , for the sun was so low in the heavens that the bushes in the clearings threw shadows like trees . Then suddenly , as they peered in front of them between the trunks , the green of the sward turned to the blue of the water , and they saw a broad river running swiftly before them . In France it would have seemed a mighty stream , but , coming fresh from the vastness of the St. Lawrence , their eyes were used to great sheets of water . But Amos and De Catinat had both been upon the bosom of the Richelieu before , and their hearts bounded as they looked upon it , for they knew that this was the straight path which led them , the one to home , and the other to peace and freedom . A few days ' journeying down there , a few more along the lovely island-studded lakes of Champlain and Saint Sacrament , under the shadow of the tree-clad Adirondacks , and they would be at the headquarters of the Hudson , and their toils and their dangers be but a thing of gossip for the winter evenings.Across the river was the terrible Iroquois country , and at two points they could see the smoke of fires curling up into the evening air . They had the Jesuit 's word for it that none of the war-parties had crossed yet , so they followed the track which led down the eastern bank . As they pushed onwards , however , a stern military challenge suddenly brought them to a stand , and they saw the gleam of two musket barrels which covered them from a thicket overlooking the path . `` We are friends , '' cried De Catinat . `` Whence come you , then ? '' asked an invisible sentinel . `` From Quebec . `` `` And whither are you going ? `` `` To visit Monsieur Charles de la Noue , seigneur of Sainte Marie . `` `` Very good . It is quite safe , Du Lhut . They have a lady with them , too . I greet you , madame , in the name of my father . `` Two men had emerged from the bushes , one of whom might have passed as a full-blooded Indian , had it not been for these courteous words which he uttered in excellent French . He was a tall slight young man , very dark , with piercing black eyes , and a grim square relentless mouth which could only have come with Indian descent . His coarse flowing hair was gathered up into a scalp-lock , and the eagle feather which he wore in it was his only headgear . A rude suit of fringed hide with caribou-skin mocassins might have been the fellow to the one which Amos Green was wearing , but the gleam of a gold chain from his belt , the sparkle of a costly ring upon his finger , and the delicate richly-inlaid musket which he carried , all gave a touch of grace to his equipment . A broad band of yellow ochre across his forehead and a tomahawk at his belt added to the strange inconsistency of his appearance.The other was undoubtedly a pure Frenchman , elderly , dark and wiry , with a bristling black beard and a fierce eager face . He , too , was clad in hunter 's dress , but he wore a gaudy striped sash round his waist , into which a brace of long pistols had been thrust . His buckskin tunic had been ornamented over the front with dyed porcupine quills and Indian bead-work , while his leggings were scarlet with a fringe of raccoon tails hanging down from them . Leaning upon his long brown gun he stood watching the party , while his companion advanced towards them . `` You will excuse our precautions , '' said he . `` We never know what device these rascals may adopt to entrap us . I fear , madame , that you have had a long and very tiring journey . `` Poor Adele , who had been famed for neatness even among housekeepers of the Rue St. Martin , hardly dared to look down at her own stained and tattered dress . Fatigue and danger she had endured with a smiling face , but her patience almost gave way at the thought of facing strangers in this attire . `` My mother will be very glad to welcome you , and to see to every want , '' said he quickly , as though he had read her thoughts . `` But you , sir , I have surely seen you before . `` `` And I you , '' cried the guardsman . `` My name is Amory de Catinat , once of the regiment of Picardy . Surely you are Achille de la Noue de Sainte Marie , whom I remember when you came with your father to the governmentleveesat Quebec . `` `` Yes , it is I , '' the young man answered , holding out his hand and smiling in a somewhat constrained fashion . `` I do not wonder that you should hesitate , for when you saw me last I was in a very different dress to this . `` De Catinat did indeed remember him as one of the band of the youngnoblessewho used to come up to the capital once a year , where they inquired about the latest modes , chatted over the year-old gossip of Versailles , and for a few weeks at least lived a life which was in keeping with the traditions of their order . Very different was he now , with scalp-lock and war-paint , under the shadow of the great oaks , his musket in his hand and his tomahawk at his belt . `` We have one life for the forest and one for the cities , '' said he , `` though indeed my good father will not have it so , and carries Versailles with him wherever he goes . You know him of old , monsieur , and I need not explain my words . But it is time for our relief , and so we may guide you home . `` Two men in the rude dress of Canadiancensitairesor farmers , but carrying their muskets in a fashion which told De Catinat 's trained senses that they were disciplined soldiers , had suddenly appeared upon the scene . Young De la Noue gave them a few curt injunctions , and then accompanied the refugees along the path . `` You may not know my friend here , '' said he , pointing to the other sentinel , `` but I am quite sure that his name is not unfamiliar to you . This is Greysolon du Lhut . `` Both Amos and De Catinat looked with the deepest curiosity and interest at the famous leader ofcoureurs-de-bois , a man whose whole life had been spent in pushing westward , ever westward , saying little , writing nothing , but always the first wherever there was danger to meet or difficulty to overcome . It was not religion and it was not hope of gain which led him away into those western wildernesses , but pure love of nature and of adventure , with so little ambition that he had never cared to describe his own travels , and none knew where he had been or where he had stopped . For years he would vanish from the settlements away into the vast plains of the Dacotah , or into the huge wilderness of the north-west , and then at last some day would walk back into Sault La Marie , or any other outpost of civilisation , a little leaner , a little browner , and as taciturn as ever . Indians from the furthest corners of the continent knew him as they knew their own sachem . He could raise tribes and bring a thousand painted cannibals to the help of the French who spoke a tongue which none knew , and came from the shores of rivers which no one else had visited . The most daring French explorers , when , after a thousand dangers , they had reached some country which they believed to be new , were as likely as not to find Du Lhut sitting by his camp fire there , some new squaw by his side , and his pipe between his teeth . Or again , when in doubt and danger , with no friends within a thousand miles , the traveller might suddenly meet this silent man , with one or two tattered wanderers of his own kidney , who would help him from his peril , and then vanish as unexpectedly as he came . Such was the man who now walked by their sides along the bank of the Richelieu , and both Amos and De Catinat knew that his presence there had a sinister meaning , and that the place which Greysolon du Lhut had chosen was the place where the danger threatened . `` What do you think of those fires over yonder , Du Lhut ? '' asked young De la Noue.The adventurer was stuffing his pipe with rank Indian tobacco , which he pared from a plug with a scalping knife . He glanced over at the two little plumes of smoke which stood