until the little spark of life which still lingered in him might be fanned to a flame . Meanwhile Ephraim Savage had ordered up the two prisoners whom he had entrapped at Honfleur . Very foolish they looked as they stood blinking and winking in the daylight from which they had been so long cut off . `` Very sorry , captain , '' said the seaman , `` but either you had to come with us , d 'ye see , or we had to stay with you . They 're waiting for me over at Boston , and in truth I really could n't tarry . `` The French soldier shrugged his shoulders and looked around him with a lengthening face . He and his corporal were limp with sea-sickness , and as miserable as a Frenchman is when first he finds that France has vanished from his view . `` Which would you prefer , to go on with us to America , or go back toFrance ? `` `` Back to France , if I can find my way . Oh , I must get to France again if only to have a word with that fool of a gunner . `` `` Well , we emptied a bucket of water over his linstock and priming , d 'ye see , so maybe he did all he could . But there 's France , where that thickening is over yonder . `` `` I see it ! I see it ! Ah , if my feet were only upon it once more . `` `` There is a boat beside us , and you may take it . `` `` My God , what happiness ! Corporal Lemoine , the boat ! Let us push off at once . `` `` But you need a few things first . Good Lord , who ever heard of a man pushing off like that ! Mr. Tomlinson , just sling a keg of water and a barrel of meat and of biscuit into this boat . Hiram Jefferson , bring two oars aft . It 's a long pull with the wind in your teeth , but you 'll be there by to-morrow night , and the weather is set fair . `` The two Frenchmen were soon provided with all that they were likely to require , and pushed off with a waving of hats and a shouting ofbon voyage . The foreyard was swung round again and theGolden Rodturned her bowsprit for the west . For hours a glimpse could be caught of the boat , dwindling away on the wave-tops , until at last it vanished into the haze , and with it vanished the very last link which connected them with the great world which they were leaving behind them.But whilst these things had been done , the senseless man beneath the mast had twitched his eyelids , had drawn a little gasping breath , and then finally had opened his eyes . His skin was like gray parchment drawn tightly over his bones , and the limbs which thrust out from his clothes were those of a sickly child . Yet , weak as he was , the large black eyes with which he looked about him were full of dignity and power . Old Catinat had come upon deck , and at the sight of the man and of his dress he had run forward , and had raised his head reverently and rested it in his own arms . `` He is one of the faithful , '' he cried , `` he is one of our pastors . Ah , now indeed a blessing will be upon our journey ! `` But the man smiled gently and shook his head . `` I fear that I may not come this journey with you , '' said he , `` for the Lord has called me upon a further journey of my own . I have had my summons and I am ready . I am indeed the pastor of the temple at Isigny , and when we heard the orders of the wicked king , I and two of the faithful with their little one put forth in the hope that we might come to England . But on the first day there came a wave which swept away one of our oars and all that was in the boat , our bread , our keg , and we were left with no hope save in Him . And then He began to call us to Him one at a time , first the child , and then the woman , and then the man , until I only am left , though I feel that my own time is not long . But since ye are also of the faithful , may I not serve you in any way before I go ? `` The merchant shook his head , and then suddenly a thought flashed upon him , and he ran with joy upon his face and whispered eagerly to Amos Green . Amos laughed , and strode across to the captain . `` It 's time , '' said Ephraim Savage grimly.Then the whisperers went to De Catinat . He sprang in the air and his eyes shone with delight . And then they went down to Adele in her cabin , and she started and blushed , and turned her sweet face away , and patted her hair with her hands as woman will when a sudden call is made upon her . And so , since haste was needful , and since even there upon the lonely sea there was one coming who might at any moment snap their purpose , they found themselves in a few minutes , this gallant man and this pure woman , kneeling hand in hand before the dying pastor , who raised his thin arm feebly in benediction as he muttered the words which should make them forever one.Adele had often pictured her wedding to herself , as what young girl has not ? Often in her dreams she had knelt before the altar with Amory in the temple of the Rue St. Martin . Or sometimes her fancy had taken her to some of those smaller churches in the provinces , those little refuges where a handful of believers gathered together , and it was there that her thoughts had placed the crowning act of a woman 's life . But when had she thought of such a marriage as this , with the white deck swaying beneath them , the ropes humming above , their only choristers the gulls which screamed around them , and their wedding hymn the world-old anthem which is struck from the waves by the wind ? And when could she forget the scene ? The yellow masts and the bellying sails , the gray drawn face and the cracked lips of the castaway , her father 's gaunt earnest features as he knelt to support the dying minister , De Catinat in his blue coat , already faded and weather-stained . Captain Savage with his wooden face turned towards the clouds , and Amos Green with his hands in his pockets and a quiet twinkle in his blue eyes ! Then behind all the lanky mate and the little group of New England seamen with their palmetto hats and their serious faces ! And so it was done amid kindly words in a harsh foreign tongue , and the shaking of rude hands hardened by the rope and the oar . De Catinat and his wife leaned together by the shrouds when all was over and watched the black side as it rose and fell , and the green water which raced past them . `` It is all so strange and so new , '' she said . `` Our future seems as vague and dark as yonder cloud-banks which gather in front of us . `` `` If it rest with me , '' he answered , `` your future will be as merry and bright as the sunlight that glints on the crest of these waves . The country that drove us forth lies far behind us , but out there is another and a fairer country , and every breath of wind wafts us nearer to it . Freedom awaits us there , and we bear with us youth and love , and what could man or woman ask for more ? `` So they stood and talked while the shadows deepened into twilight and the first faint gleam of the stars broke out in the darkening heavens above them . But ere those stars had waned again one more toiler had found rest aboard theGolden Rod , and the scattered flock from Isigny had found their little pastor once more.For three weeks the wind kept at east or north-east , always at a brisk breeze and freshening sometimes into half a gale . TheGolden Rodsped merrily upon her way with every sail drawing , alow and aloft , so that by the end of the third week Amos and Ephraim Savage were reckoning out the hours before they would look upon their native land once more . To the old seaman who was used to meeting and to parting it was a small matter , but Amos , who had never been away before , was on fire with impatience , and would sit smoking for hours with his legs astride the shank of the bowsprit , staring ahead at the skyline , in the hope that his friend 's reckoning had been wrong , and that at any moment he might see the beloved coast line looming up in front of him . `` It 's no use , lad , '' said Captain Ephraim , laying his great red hand upon his shoulder . `` They that go down to the sea in ships need a power of patience , and there 's no good eatin ' your heart out for what you ca n't get . `` `` There 's a feel of home about the air , though , '' Amos answered . `` It seems to whistle through your teeth with a bite to it that I never felt over yonder . Ah , it will take three months of the Mohawk Valley before I feel myself to rights . `` `` Well , '' said his friend , thrusting a plug of Trinidado tobacco into the corner of his cheek , `` I 've been on the sea since I had hair to my face , mostly in the coast trade , d 'ye see , but over the water as well , as far as those navigation laws would let me . Except the two years that I came ashore for the King Philip business , when every man that could carry a gun was needed on the border , I 've never been three casts of a biscuit from salt water , and I tell you that I never knew a better crossing than the one we have just made . `` `` Ay , we have come along like a buck before a forest fire . But it is strange to me how you find your way so clearly out here with never track nor trail to guide you . It would puzzle me , Ephraim , to find America , to say nought of the Narrows of New York . `` `` I am somewhat too far to the north , Amos . We have been on or about the fiftieth since we sighted Cape La Hague . To-morrow we should make land , by my reckonin ' . `` `` Ah , to-morrow ! And what