out today . Then indeed you would have had him at your mercy ! `` It was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog had lifted . Meanwhile we left Lestrade in possession of the house while Holmes and I went back with the baronet to Baskerville Hall . The story of the Stapletons could no longer be withheld from him , but he took the blow bravely when he learned the truth about the woman whom he had loved . But the shock of the night 's adventures had shattered his nerves , and before morning he lay delirious in a high fever under the care of Dr. Mortimer . The two of them were destined to travel together round the world before Sir Henry had become once more the hale , hearty man that he had been before he became master of that ill-omened estate.And now I come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative , in which I have tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague surmises which clouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a manner . On the morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by Mrs. Stapleton to the point where they had found a pathway through the bog . It helped us to realize the horror of this woman 's life when we saw the eagerness and joy with which she laid us on her husband 's track . We left her standing upon the thin peninsula of firm , peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog . From the end of it a small wand planted here and there showed where the path zigzagged from tuft to tuft of rushes among those green-scummed pits and foul quagmires which barred the way to the stranger . Rank reeds and lush , slimy water-plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto our faces , while a false step plunged us more than once thigh-deep into the dark , quivering mire , which shook for yards in soft undulations around our feet . Its tenacious grip plucked at our heels as we walked , and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant hand was tugging us down into those obscene depths , so grim and purposeful was the clutch in which it held us . Once only we saw a trace that someone had passed that perilous way before us . From amid a tuft of cotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing was projecting . Holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to seize it , and had we not been there to drag him out he could never have set his foot upon firm land again . He held an old black boot in the air . `` Meyers , Toronto , '' was printed on the leather inside . `` It is worth a mud bath , '' said he . `` It is our friend Sir Henry 's missing boot . `` `` Thrown there by Stapleton in his flight. '' '' Exactly . He retained it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon the track . He fled when he knew the game was up , still clutching it . And he hurled it away at this point of his flight . We know at least that he came so far in safety . `` But more than that we were never destined to know , though there was much which we might surmise . There was no chance of finding footsteps in the mire , for the rising mud oozed swiftly in upon them , but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the morass we all looked eagerly for them . But no slightest sign of them ever met our eyes . If the earth told a true story , then Stapleton never reached that island of refuge towards which he struggled through the fog upon that last night . Somewhere in the heart of the great Grimpen Mire , down in the foul slime of the huge morass which had sucked him in , this cold and cruel-hearted man is forever buried.Many traces we found of him in the bog-girt island where he had hid his savage ally . A huge driving-wheel and a shaft half-filled with rubbish showed the position of an abandoned mine . Beside it were the crumbling remains of the cottages of the miners , driven away no doubt by the foul reek of the surrounding swamp . In one of these a staple and chain with a quantity of gnawed bones showed where the animal had been confined . A skeleton with a tangle of brown hair adhering to it lay among the debris . `` A dog ! '' said Holmes . `` By Jove , a curly-haired spaniel . Poor Mortimer will never see his pet again . Well , I do not know that this place contains any secret which we have not already fathomed . He could hide his hound , but he could not hush its voice , and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not pleasant to hear . On an emergency he could keep the hound in the out-house at Merripit , but it was always a risk , and it was only on the supreme day , which he regarded as the end of all his efforts , that he dared do it . This paste in the tin is no doubt the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed . It was suggested , of course , by the story of the family hell-hound , and by the desire to frighten old Sir Charles to death . No wonder the poor devil of a convict ran and screamed , even as our friend did , and as we ourselves might have done , when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his track . It was a cunning device , for , apart from the chance of driving your victim to his death , what peasant would venture to inquire too closely into such a creature should he get sight of it , as many have done , upon the moor ? I said it in London , Watson , and I say it again now , that never yet have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who is lying yonder '' -- -he swept his long arm towards the huge mottled expanse of green-splotched bog which stretched away until it merged into the russet slopes of the moor.It was the end of November , and Holmes and I sat , upon a raw and foggy night , on either side of a blazing fire in our sitting-room in Baker Street . Since the tragic upshot of our visit to Devonshire he had been engaged in two affairs of the utmost importance , in the first of which he had exposed the atrocious conduct of Colonel Upwood in connection with the famous card scandal of the Nonpareil Club , while in the second he had defended the unfortunate Mme . Montpensier from the charge of murder which hung over her in connection with the death of her step-daughter , Mlle . Carere , the young lady who , as it will be remembered , was found six months later alive and married in New York . My friend was in excellent spirits over the success which had attended a succession of difficult and important cases , so that I was able to induce him to discuss the details of the Baskerville mystery . I had waited patiently for the opportunity for I was aware that he would never permit cases to overlap , and that his clear and logical mind would not be drawn from its present work to dwell upon memories of the past . Sir Henry and Dr. Mortimer were , however , in London , on their way to that long voyage which had been recommended for the restoration of his shattered nerves . They had called upon us that very afternoon , so that it was natural that the subject should come up for discussion . `` The whole course of events , '' said Holmes , `` from the point of view of the man who called himself Stapleton was simple and direct , although to us , who had no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his actions and could only learn part of the facts , it all appeared exceedingly complex . I have had the advantage of two conversations with Mrs. Stapleton , and the case has now been so entirely cleared up that I am not aware that there is anything which has remained a secret to us . You will find a few notes upon the matter under the heading B in my indexed list of cases . `` `` Perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of events from memory . `` `` Certainly , though I can not guarantee that I carry all the facts in my mind . Intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out what has passed . The barrister who has his case at his fingers ' ends and is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a week or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more . So each of my cases displaces the last , and Mlle . Carere has blurred my recollection of Baskerville Hall . Tomorrow some other little problem may be submitted to my notice which will in turn dispossess the fair French lady and the infamous Upwood . So far as the case of the hound goes , however , I will give you the course of events as nearly as I can , and you will suggest anything which I may have forgotten . `` My inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait did not lie , and that this fellow was indeed a Baskerville . He was a son of that Rodger Baskerville , the younger brother of Sir Charles , who fled with a sinister reputation to South America , where he was said to have died unmarried . He did , as a matter of fact , marry , and had one child , this fellow , whose real name is the same as his father 's . He married Beryl Garcia , one of the beauties of Costa Rica , and , having purloined a considerable sum of public money , he changed his name to Vandeleur and fled to England , where he established a school in the east of Yorkshire . His reason for attempting this special line of business was that he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the voyage home , and that he had used this man 's ability to make the undertaking a success . Fraser , the tutor , died however , and the school which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy . The Vandeleurs found it convenient to change their name to Stapleton , and he brought the remains of his fortune , his schemes for the future , and his taste for entomology to the south of England . I learned at the British Museum that he was a recognized authority upon the subject , and that the name of Vandeleur has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had , in his Yorkshire days , been the first to describe . `` We now