Certainly not . She must prove and re-prove before I yield a point . But if I am still a sceptic , I have at least ceased to be a scoffer . We are to have a sitting this evening , and she is to try if she can produce any mesmeric effect upon me . If she can , it will make an excellent starting-point for our investigation . No one can accuse me , at any rate , of complicity . If she can not , we must try and find some subject who will be like Caesar 's wife . Wilson is perfectly impervious.10 P. M. I believe that I am on the threshold of an epoch-making investigation . To have the power of examining these phenomena from inside -- -to have an organism which will respond , and at the same time a brain which will appreciate and criticise -- -that is surely a unique advantage . I am quite sure that Wilson would give five years of his life to be as susceptible as I have proved myself to be.There was no one present except Wilson and his wife . I was seated with my head leaning back , and Miss Penclosa , standing in front and a little to the left , used the same long , sweeping strokes as with Agatha . At each of them a warm current of air seemed to strike me , and to suffuse a thrill and glow all through me from head to foot . My eyes were fixed upon Miss Penclosa 's face , but as I gazed the features seemed to blur and to fade away . I was conscious only of her own eyes looking down at me , gray , deep , inscrutable . Larger they grew and larger , until they changed suddenly into two mountain lakes toward which I seemed to be falling with horrible rapidity . I shuddered , and as I did so some deeper stratum of thought told me that the shudder represented the rigor which I had observed in Agatha . An instant later I struck the surface of the lakes , now joined into one , and down I went beneath the water with a fulness in my head and a buzzing in my ears . Down I went , down , down , and then with a swoop up again until I could see the light streaming brightly through the green water . I was almost at the surface when the word `` Awake ! '' rang through my head , and , with a start , I found myself back in the arm-chair , with Miss Penclosa leaning on her crutch , and Wilson , his note book in his hand , peeping over her shoulder . No heaviness or weariness was left behind . On the contrary , though it is only an hour or so since the experiment , I feel so wakeful that I am more inclined for my study than my bedroom . I see quite a vista of interesting experiments extending before us , and am all impatience to begin upon them.March 27 . A blank day , as Miss Penclosa goes with Wilson and his wife to the Suttons ' . Have begun Binet and Ferre 's `` Animal Magnetism . '' What strange , deep waters these are ! Results , results , results -- -and the cause an absolute mystery . It is stimulating to the imagination , but I must be on my guard against that . Let us have no inferences nor deductions , and nothing but solid facts . I KNOW that the mesmeric trance is true ; I KNOW that mesmeric suggestion is true ; I KNOW that I am myself sensitive to this force . That is my present position . I have a large new note-book which shall be devoted entirely to scientific detail.Long talk with Agatha and Mrs. Marden in the evening about our marriage . We think that the summer vac . ( the beginning of it ) would be the best time for the wedding . Why should we delay ? I grudge even those few months . Still , as Mrs. Marden says , there are a good many things to be arranged.March 28 . Mesmerized again by Miss Penclosa . Experience much the same as before , save that insensibility came on more quickly . See Note-book A for temperature of room , barometric pressure , pulse , and respiration as taken by Professor Wilson.March 29 . Mesmerized again . Details in Note-book A.March 30 . Sunday , and a blank day . I grudge any interruption of our experiments . At present they merely embrace the physical signs which go with slight , with complete , and with extreme insensibility . Afterward we hope to pass on to the phenomena of suggestion and of lucidity . Professors have demonstrated these things upon women at Nancy and at the Salpetriere . It will be more convincing when a woman demonstrates it upon a professor , with a second professor as a witness . And that I should be the subject -- -I , the sceptic , the materialist ! At least , I have shown that my devotion to science is greater than to my own personal consistency . The eating of our own words is the greatest sacrifice which truth ever requires of us.My neighbor , Charles Sadler , the handsome young demonstrator of anatomy , came in this evening to return a volume of Virchow 's `` Archives '' which I had lent him . I call him young , but , as a matter of fact , he is a year older than I am . `` I understand , Gilroy , '' said he , `` that you are being experimented upon by Miss Penclosa . `` `` Well , '' he went on , when I had acknowledged it , `` if I were you , I should not let it go any further . You will think me very impertinent , no doubt , but , none the less , I feel it to be my duty to advise you to have no more to do with her . `` Of course I asked him why . `` I am so placed that I can not enter into particulars as freely as I could wish , '' said he . `` Miss Penclosa is the friend of my friend , and my position is a delicate one . I can only say this : that I have myself been the subject of some of the woman 's experiments , and that they have left a most unpleasant impression upon my mind . `` He could hardly expect me to be satisfied with that , and I tried hard to get something more definite out of him , but without success . Is it conceivable that he could be jealous at my having superseded him ? Or is he one of those men of science who feel personally injured when facts run counter to their preconceived opinions ? He can not seriously suppose that because he has some vague grievance I am , therefore , to abandon a series of experiments which promise to be so fruitful of results . He appeared to be annoyed at the light way in which I treated his shadowy warnings , and we parted with some little coldness on both sides.March 31 . Mesmerized by Miss P.April 1 . Mesmerized by Miss P. ( Note-book A . ) April 2 . Mesmerized by Miss P. ( Sphygmographic chart taken by Professor Wilson . ) April 3 . It is possible that this course of mesmerism may be a little trying to the general constitution . Agatha says that I am thinner and darker under the eyes . I am conscious of a nervous irritability which I had not observed in myself before . The least noise , for example , makes me start , and the stupidity of a student causes me exasperation instead of amusement . Agatha wishes me to stop , but I tell her that every course of study is trying , and that one can never attain a result with out paying some price for it . When she sees the sensation which my forthcoming paper on `` The Relation between Mind and Matter '' may make , she will understand that it is worth a little nervous wear and tear . I should not be surprised if I got my F. R. S. over it.Mesmerized again in the evening . The effect is produced more rapidly now , and the subjective visions are less marked . I keep full notes of each sitting . Wilson is leaving for town for a week or ten days , but we shall not interrupt the experiments , which depend for their value as much upon my sensations as on his observations.April 4 . I must be carefully on my guard . A complication has crept into our experiments which I had not reckoned upon . In my eagerness for scientific facts I have been foolishly blind to the human relations between Miss Penclosa and myself . I can write here what I would not breathe to a living soul . The unhappy woman appears to have formed an attachment for me.I should not say such a thing , even in the privacy of my own intimate journal , if it had not come to such a pass that it is impossible to ignore it . For some time , -- -that is , for the last week , -- -there have been signs which I have brushed aside and refused to think of . Her brightness when I come , her dejection when I go , her eagerness that I should come often , the expression of her eyes , the tone of her voice -- -I tried to think that they meant nothing , and were , perhaps , only her ardent West Indian manner . But last night , as I awoke from the mesmeric sleep , I put out my hand , unconsciously , involuntarily , and clasped hers . When I came fully to myself , we were sitting with them locked , she looking up at me with an expectant smile . And the horrible thing was that I felt impelled to say what she expected me to say . What a false wretch I should have been ! How I should have loathed myself to-day had I yielded to the temptation of that moment ! But , thank God , I was strong enough to spring up and hurry from the room . I was rude , I fear , but I could not , no , I COULD not , trust myself another moment . I , a gentleman , a man of honor , engaged to one of the sweetest girls in England -- -and yet in a moment of reasonless passion I nearly professed love for this woman whom I hardly know . She is far older than myself and a cripple . It is monstrous , odious ; and yet the impulse was so strong that , had I stayed another minute in her presence , I should have committed myself . What was it ? I have to teach others the workings of our organism , and what do I know of it myself ? Was it the sudden upcropping of some lower stratum in my nature -- -a brutal primitive instinct suddenly asserting itself ? I could almost believe the tales of obsession by evil spirits , so overmastering was the feeling.Well , the incident places me in a most unfortunate position . On the one hand , I am