gale , and before midnight the most furious storm was raging which I can remember upon that weather-beaten coast.I sat for some time in our small , oak-panelled sitting-room listening to the screeching and howling of the blast and to the rattle of the gravel and pebbles as they pattered against the window . Nature 's grim orchestra was playing its world-old piece with a compass which ranged from the deep diapason of the thundering surge to the thin shriek of the scattered shingle and the keen piping of frightened sea birds.Once for an instant I opened the lattice window , but a gust of wind and rain came blustering through , bearing with it a great sheet of seaweed , which flapped down upon the table . It was all I could do to close it again with a thrust of my shoulder in the face of the blast.My sister and father had retired to their rooms , but my thoughts were too active for sleep , so I continued to sit and to smoke by the smouldering fire.What was going on in the Hall now , I wondered ? What did Gabriel think of the storm , and how did it affect the old man who wandered about in the night ? Did he welcome these dread forces of Nature as being of the same order of things as his own tumultuous thoughts ? It was only two days now from the date which I had been assured was to mark a crisis in his fortunes . Would he regard this sudden tempest as being in any way connected with the mysterious fate which threatened him ? Over all these things and many more I pondered as I sat by the glowing embers until they died gradually out , and the chill night air warned me that it was time to retire.I may have slept a couple of hours when I was awakened by someone tugging furiously at my shoulder . Sitting up in bed , I saw by the dim light that my father was standing half-clad by my bedside , and that it was his grasp which I felt on my night-shirt . `` Get up , Jack , get up ! '' he was crying excitedly . `` There 's a great ship ashore in the bay , and the poor folk will all be drowned . Come down , my boy , and let us see what we can do . `` The good old man seemed to be nearly beside himself with excitement and impatience . I sprang from my bed , and was huddling on a few clothes , when a dull , booming sound made itself heard above the howling of the wind and the thunder of the breakers . `` There it is again ! '' cried my father . `` It is their signal gun , poor creatures ! Jamieson and the fishermen are below . Put your oil-skin coat on and the Glengarry hat . Come , come , every second may mean a human life ! `` We hurried down together and made our way to the beach , accompanied by a dozen or so of the inhabitants of Branksome.The gale had increased rather than moderated , and the wind screamed all round us with an infernal clamour . So great was its force that we had to put our shoulders against it , and bore our way through it , while the sand and gravel tingled up against our faces.There was just light enough to make out the scudding clouds and the white gleam of the breakers , but beyond that all was absolute darkness.We stood ankle deep in the shingle and seaweed , shading our eyes with our hands and peering out into the inky obscurity.It seemed to me as I listened that I could hear human voices loud in intreaty and terror , but amid the wild turmoil of Nature it was difficult to distinguish one sound from another.Suddenly , however , a light glimmered in the heart of the tempest , and next instant the beach and sea and wide , tossing bay were brilliantly illuminated by the wild glare of a signal light.The ship lay on her beam-ends right in the centre of the terrible Hansel reef , hurled over to such an angle that I could see all the planking of her deck . I recognised her at once as being the same three-masted barque which I had observed in the Channel in the morning , and the Union Jack which was nailed upside down to the jagged slump of her mizzen proclaimed her nationality.Every spar and rope and writhing piece of cordage showed up hard and clear under the vivid light which spluttered and flickered from the highest portion of the forecastle . Beyond the doomed ship , out of the great darkness came the long , rolling lines of big waves , never ending , never tiring , with a petulant tuft of foam here and there upon their crests . Each as it reached the broad circle of unnatural light appeared to gather strength and volume and to hurry on more impetuously until with a roar and a jarring crash it sprang upon its victim.Clinging to the weather shrouds we could distinctly see ten or a dozen frightened seamen who , when the light revealed our presence , turned their white faces towards us and waved their hands imploringly . The poor wretches had evidently taken fresh hope from our presence , though it was clear that their own boats had either been washed away or so damaged as to render them useless.The sailors who clung to the rigging were not , however , the only unfortunates on board . On the breaking poop there stood three men who appeared to be both of a different race and nature from the cowering wretches who implored our assistance.Leaning upon the shattered taff-rail they seemed to be conversing together as quietly and unconcernedly as though they were unconscious of the deadly peril which surrounded them.As the signal light flickered over them , we could see from the shore that these immutable strangers wore red fezes , and that their faces were of a swarthy , large-featured type , which proclaimed an Eastern origin.There was little time , however , for us to take note of such details . The ship was breaking rapidly , and some effort must be made to save the poor , sodden group of humanity who implored our assistance.The nearest lifeboat was in the Bay of Luce , ten long miles away , but here was our own broad , roomy craft upon the shingle , and plenty of brave fisher lads to form a crew . Six of us sprang to the oars , the others pushed us off , and we fought our way through the swirling , raging waters , staggering and recoiling before the great , sweeping billows , but still steadily decreasing the distance between the barque and ourselves.It seemed , however , that our efforts were fated to be in vain.As we mounted upon a surge I saw a giant wave , topping all the others , and coming after them like a driver following a flock , sweep down upon the vessel , curling its great , green arch over the breaking deck.With a rending , riving sound the ship split in two where the terrible , serrated back of the Hansel reef was sawing into her keel . The after-part , with the broken mizzen and the three Orientals , sank backwards into deep water and vanished , while the fore-half oscillated helplessly about , retaining its precarious balance upon the rocks.A wail of fear went up from the wreck and was echoed from the beach , but by the blessing of Providence she kept afloat until we made our way under her bowsprit and rescued every man of the crew.We had not got half-way upon our return , however , when another great wave swept the shattered forecastle off the reef , and , extinguishing the signal light , hid the wild denouement from our view.Our friends upon the shore were loud in congratulation and praise , nor were they backward in welcoming and comforting the castaways . They were thirteen in all , as cold and cowed a set of mortals as ever slipped through Death 's fingers , save , indeed , their captain , who was a hardy , robust man , and who made light of the affair.Some were taken off to this cottage and some to that , but the greater part came back to Branksome with us , where we gave them such dry clothes as we could lay our hands on , and served them with beef and beer by the kitchen fire . The captain , whose name was Meadows , compressed his bulky form into a suit of my own , and came down to the parlour , where he mixed himself some grog and gave my father and myself an account of the disaster . `` If it had n't been for you , sir , and your brave fellows , '' he said , smiling across at me , `` we should be ten fathoms deep by this time . As to theBelinda , she was a leaky old tub and well insured , so neither the owners nor I are likely to break our hearts over her . `` `` I am afraid , '' said my father sadly , `` that we shall never see your three passengers again . I have left men upon the beach in case they should be washed up , but I fear it is hopeless . I saw them go down when the vessel split , and no man could have lived for a moment among that terrible surge . `` `` Who were they ? '' I asked . `` I could not have believed that it was possible for men to appear so unconcerned in the face of such imminent peril . `` `` As to who they are or were , '' the captain answered , puffing thoughtfully at his pipe , `` that is by no means easy to say . Our last port was Kurrachee , in the north of India , and there we took them aboard as passengers for Glasgow . Ram Singh was the name of the younger , and it is only with him that I have come in contact , but they all appeared to be quiet , inoffensive gentlemen . I never inquired their business , but I should judge that they were Parsee merchants from Hyderabad whose trade took them to Europe . I could never see why the crew should fear them , and the mate , too , he should have had more sense . `` `` Fear them ! '' I ejaculated in surprise . `` Yes , they had some preposterous idea that they were dangerous shipmates . I have no doubt if you were to go down into the kitchen now you would find that they are all agreed that our passengers were the cause of the whole disaster . `` As the captain was speaking the parlour door opened and the mate of the barque , a tall , red-bearded sailor , stepped in . He had obtained a complete rig-out from some kind-hearted fisherman , and looked in his comfortable jersey and well-greased seaboots a very favourable specimen of a shipwrecked mariner.With a few words of grateful acknowledgment of our hospitality , he drew a chair up to the fire and warmed his great , brown hands before the blaze . `` What d 'ye think now , Captain Meadows ? '' he asked presently , glancing up at