of whatever chance might throw in his way . Looking back he saw the old man and the young girl crouching over the blazing fire , while the three animals stood motionless in the back-ground . Then the intervening rocks hid them from his view.He walked for a couple of miles through one ravine after another without success , though from the marks upon the bark of the trees , and other indications , he judged that there were numerous bears in the vicinity . At last , after two or three hours ' fruitless search , he was thinking of turning back in despair , when casting his eyes upwards he saw a sight which sent a thrill of pleasure through his heart . On the edge of a jutting pinnacle , three or four hundred feet above him , there stood a creature somewhat resembling a sheep in appearance , but armed with a pair of gigantic horns . The big-horn -- -for so it is called -- -was acting , probably , as a guardian over a flock which were invisible to the hunter ; but fortunately it was heading in the opposite direction , and had not perceived him . Lying on his face , he rested his rifle upon a rock , and took a long and steady aim before drawing the trigger . The animal sprang into the air , tottered for a moment upon the edge of the precipice , and then came crashing down into the valley beneath.The creature was too unwieldy to lift , so the hunter contented himself with cutting away one haunch and part of the flank . With this trophy over his shoulder , he hastened to retrace his steps , for the evening was already drawing in . He had hardly started , however , before he realized the difficulty which faced him . In his eagerness he had wandered far past the ravines which were known to him , and it was no easy matter to pick out the path which he had taken . The valley in which he found himself divided and sub-divided into many gorges , which were so like each other that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other . He followed one for a mile or more until he came to a mountain torrent which he was sure that he had never seen before . Convinced that he had taken the wrong turn , he tried another , but with the same result . Night was coming on rapidly , and it was almost dark before he at last found himself in a defile which was familiar to him . Even then it was no easy matter to keep to the right track , for the moon had not yet risen , and the high cliffs on either side made the obscurity more profound . Weighed down with his burden , and weary from his exertions , he stumbled along , keeping up his heart by the reflection that every step brought him nearer to Lucy , and that he carried with him enough to ensure them food for the remainder of their journey.He had now come to the mouth of the very defile in which he had left them . Even in the darkness he could recognize the outline of the cliffs which bounded it . They must , he reflected , be awaiting him anxiously , for he had been absent nearly five hours . In the gladness of his heart he put his hands to his mouth and made the glen re-echo to a loud halloo as a signal that he was coming . He paused and listened for an answer . None came save his own cry , which clattered up the dreary silent ravines , and was borne back to his ears in countless repetitions . Again he shouted , even louder than before , and again no whisper came back from the friends whom he had left such a short time ago . A vague , nameless dread came over him , and he hurried onwards frantically , dropping the precious food in his agitation.When he turned the corner , he came full in sight of the spot where the fire had been lit . There was still a glowing pile of wood ashes there , but it had evidently not been tended since his departure . The same dead silence still reigned all round . With his fears all changed to convictions , he hurried on . There was no living creature near the remains of the fire : animals , man , maiden , all were gone . It was only too clear that some sudden and terrible disaster had occurred during his absence -- -a disaster which had embraced them all , and yet had left no traces behind it.Bewildered and stunned by this blow , Jefferson Hope felt his head spin round , and had to lean upon his rifle to save himself from falling . He was essentially a man of action , however , and speedily recovered from his temporary impotence . Seizing a half-consumed piece of wood from the smouldering fire , he blew it into a flame , and proceeded with its help to examine the little camp . The ground was all stamped down by the feet of horses , showing that a large party of mounted men had overtaken the fugitives , and the direction of their tracks proved that they had afterwards turned back to Salt Lake City . Had they carried back both of his companions with them ? Jefferson Hope had almost persuaded himself that they must have done so , when his eye fell upon an object which made every nerve of his body tingle within him . A little way on one side of the camp was a low-lying heap of reddish soil , which had assuredly not been there before . There was no mistaking it for anything but a newly-dug grave . As the young hunter approached it , he perceived that a stick had been planted on it , with a sheet of paper stuck in the cleft fork of it . The inscription upon the paper was brief , but to the point : JOHN FERRIER , FORMERLY OF SALT LAKE CITY , 22 Died August 4th , 1860.The sturdy old man , whom he had left so short a time before , was gone , then , and this was all his epitaph . Jefferson Hope looked wildly round to see if there was a second grave , but there was no sign of one . Lucy had been carried back by their terrible pursuers to fulfil her original destiny , by becoming one of the harem of the Elder 's son . As the young fellow realized the certainty of her fate , and his own powerlessness to prevent it , he wished that he , too , was lying with the old farmer in his last silent resting-place.Again , however , his active spirit shook off the lethargy which springs from despair . If there was nothing else left to him , he could at least devote his life to revenge . With indomitable patience and perseverance , Jefferson Hope possessed also a power of sustained vindictiveness , which he may have learned from the Indians amongst whom he had lived . As he stood by the desolate fire , he felt that the only one thing which could assuage his grief would be thorough and complete retribution , brought by his own hand upon his enemies . His strong will and untiring energy should , he determined , be devoted to that one end . With a grim , white face , he retraced his steps to where he had dropped the food , and having stirred up the smouldering fire , he cooked enough to last him for a few days . This he made up into a bundle , and , tired as he was , he set himself to walk back through the mountains upon the track of the avenging angels.For five days he toiled footsore and weary through the defiles which he had already traversed on horseback . At night he flung himself down among the rocks , and snatched a few hours of sleep ; but before daybreak he was always well on his way . On the sixth day , he reached the Eagle Cañon , from which they had commenced their ill-fated flight . Thence he could look down upon the home of the saints . Worn and exhausted , he leaned upon his rifle and shook his gaunt hand fiercely at the silent widespread city beneath him . As he looked at it , he observed that there were flags in some of the principal streets , and other signs of festivity . He was still speculating as to what this might mean when he heard the clatter of horse 's hoofs , and saw a mounted man riding towards him . As he approached , he recognized him as a Mormon named Cowper , to whom he had rendered services at different times . He therefore accosted him when he got up to him , with the object of finding out what Lucy Ferrier 's fate had been . `` I am Jefferson Hope , '' he said . `` You remember me . `` The Mormon looked at him with undisguised astonishment -- -indeed , it was difficult to recognize in this tattered , unkempt wanderer , with ghastly white face and fierce , wild eyes , the spruce young hunter of former days . Having , however , at last , satisfied himself as to his identity , the man 's surprise changed to consternation . `` You are mad to come here , '' he cried . `` It is as much as my own life is worth to be seen talking with you . There is a warrant against you from the Holy Four for assisting the Ferriers away . `` `` I do n't fear them , or their warrant , '' Hope said , earnestly . `` You must know something of this matter , Cowper . I conjure you by everything you hold dear to answer a few questions . We have always been friends . For God 's sake , do n't refuse to answer me . `` `` What is it ? '' the Mormon asked uneasily . `` Be quick . The very rocks have ears and the trees eyes . `` `` What has become of Lucy Ferrier ? `` `` She was married yesterday to young Drebber . Hold up , man , hold up , you have no life left in you . `` `` Do n't mind me , '' said Hope faintly . He was white to the very lips , and had sunk down on the stone against which he had been leaning . `` Married , you say ? `` `` Married yesterday -- -that 's what those flags are for on the Endowment House . There was some words between young Drebber and young Stangerson as to which was to have her . They 'd both been in the party that followed them , and Stangerson had shot her father , which seemed to give him the best claim ; but when they argued it out in council , Drebber 's party was the stronger , so the Prophet gave her over to him . No one wo n't have her very long though , for I saw death in her face yesterday . She is more like a ghost than a woman . Are you off , then ? `` `` Yes , I am off , '' said Jefferson Hope ,