went up in the wintry air like the smoke from a furnace . The giant Tete-noire , towering above his fellows and clad from head to foot in plate of proof , led on his boarders , waving a huge mace in the air , with which he struck to the deck every man who approached him . On the other side , Spade-beard , a dwarf in height , but of great breadth of shoulder and length of arm , had cut a road almost to the mast , with three-score Genoese men-at-arms close at his heels . Between these two formidable assailants the seamen were being slowly wedged more closely together , until they stood back to back under the mast with the rovers raging upon every side of them.But help was close at hand . Sir Oliver Buttesthorn with his men-at-arms had swarmed down from the forecastle , while Sir Nigel , with his three squires , Black Simon , Aylward , Hordle John , and a score more , threw themselves from the poop and hurled themselves into the thickest of the fight . Alleyne , as in duty bound , kept his eyes fixed ever on his lord and pressed forward close at his heels . Often had he heard of Sir Nigel 's prowess and skill with all knightly weapons , but all the tales that had reached his ears fell far short of the real quickness and coolness of the man . It was as if the devil was in him , for he sprang here and sprang there , now thrusting and now cutting , catching blows on his shield , turning them with his blade , stooping under the swing of an axe , springing over the sweep of a sword , so swift and so erratic that the man who braced himself for a blow at him might find him six paces off ere he could bring it down . Three pirates had fallen before him , and he had wounded Spade-beard in the neck , when the Norman giant sprang at him from the side with a slashing blow from his deadly mace . Sir Nigel stooped to avoid it , and at the same instant turned a thrust from the Genoese swordsman , but , his foot slipping in a pool of blood , he fell heavily to the ground . Alleyne sprang in front of the Norman , but his sword was shattered and he himself beaten to the ground by a second blow from the ponderous weapon . Ere the pirate chief could repeat it , however , John 's iron grip fell upon his wrist , and he found that for once he was in the hands of a stronger man than himself.Fiercely he strove to disengage his weapon , but Hordle John bent his arm slowly back until , with a sharp crack , like a breaking stave , it turned limp in his grasp , and the mace dropped from the nerveless fingers . In vain he tried to pluck it up with the other hand . Back and back still his foeman bent him , until , with a roar of pain and of fury , the giant clanged his full length upon the boards , while the glimmer of a knife before the bars of his helmet warned him that short would be his shrift if he moved.Cowed and disheartened by the loss of their leader , the Normans had given back and were now streaming over the bulwarks on to their own galley , dropping a dozen at a time on to her deck . But the anchor still held them in its crooked claw , and Sir Oliver with fifty men was hard upon their heels . Now , too , the archers had room to draw their bows once more , and great stones from the yard of the cog came thundering and crashing among the flying rovers . Here and there they rushed with wild screams and curses , diving under the sail , crouching behind booms , huddling into corners like rabbits when the ferrets are upon them , as helpless and as hopeless . They were stern days , and if the honest soldier , too poor for a ransom , had no prospect of mercy upon the battle-field , what ruth was there for sea robbers , the enemies of humankind , taken in the very deed , with proofs of their crimes still swinging upon their yard-arm.But the fight had taken a new and a strange turn upon the other side . Spade-beard and his men had given slowly back , hard pressed by Sir Nigel , Aylward , Black Simon , and the poop-guard . Foot by foot the Italian had retreated , his armor running blood at every joint , his shield split , his crest shorn , his voice fallen away to a mere gasping and croaking . Yet he faced his foemen with dauntless courage , dashing in , springing back , sure-footed , steady-handed , with a point which seemed to menace three at once . Beaten back on to the deck of his own vessel , and closely followed by a dozen Englishmen , he disengaged himself from them , ran swiftly down the deck , sprang back into the cog once more , cut the rope which held the anchor , and was back in an instant among his crossbow-men . At the same time the Genoese sailors thrust with their oars against the side of the cog , and a rapidly widening rift appeared between the two vessels . `` By St . George ! '' cried Ford , `` we are cut off from Sir Nigel . `` `` He is lost , '' gasped Terlake . `` Come , let us spring for it . '' The two youths jumped with all their strength to reach the departing galley . Ford 's feet reached the edge of the bulwarks , and his hand clutching a rope he swung himself on board . Terlake fell short , crashed in among the oars , and bounded off into the sea . Alleyne , staggering to the side , was about to hurl himself after him , but Hordle John dragged him back by the girdle . `` You can scarce stand , lad , far less jump , '' said he . `` See how the blood rips from your bassinet . `` `` My place is by the flag , '' cried Alleyne , vainly struggling to break from the other 's hold . `` Bide here , man . You would need wings ere you could reach Sir Nigel 's side . `` The vessels were indeed so far apart now that the Genoese could use the full sweep of their oars , and draw away rapidly from the cog . `` My God , but it is a noble fight ! '' shouted big John , clapping his hands . `` They have cleared the poop , and they spring into the waist . Well struck , my lord ! Well struck , Aylward ! See to Black Simon , how he storms among the shipmen ! But this Spade-beard is a gallant warrior . He rallies his men upon the forecastle . He hath slain an archer . Ha ! my lord is upon him . Look to it , Alleyne ! See to the whirl and glitter of it ! `` `` By heaven , Sir Nigel is down ! '' cried the squire. '' Up ! '' roared John . `` It was but a feint . He bears him back . He drives him to the side . Ah , by Our Lady , his sword is through him ! They cry for mercy . Down goes the red cross , and up springs Simon with the scarlet roses ! `` The death of the Genoese leader did indeed bring the resistance to an end . Amid a thunder of cheering from cog and from galleys the forked pennon fluttered upon the forecastle , and the galley , sweeping round , came slowly back , as the slaves who rowed it learned the wishes of their new masters.The two knights had come aboard the cog , and the grapplings having been thrown off , the three vessels now moved abreast . Through all the storm and rush of the fight Alleyne had been aware of the voice of Goodwin Hawtayne , the master-shipman , with his constant `` Hale the bowline ! Veer the sheet ! '' and strange it was to him to see how swiftly the blood-stained sailors turned from the strife to the ropes and back . Now the cog 's head was turned Francewards , and the shipman walked the deck , a peaceful master-mariner once more . `` There is sad scath done to the cog , Sir Nigel , '' said he . `` Here is a hole in the side two ells across , the sail split through the centre , and the wood as bare as a friar 's poll . In good sooth , I know not what I shall say to Master Witherton when I see the Itchen once more . `` `` By St. Paul ! it would be a very sorry thing if we suffered you to be the worse of this day 's work , '' said Sir Nigel . `` You shall take these galleys back with you , and Master Witherton may sell them . Then from the moneys he shall take as much as may make good the damage , and the rest he shall keep until our home-coming , when every man shall have his share . An image of silver fifteen inches high I have vowed to the Virgin , to be placed in her chapel within the Priory , for that she was pleased to allow me to come upon this Spade-beard , who seemed to me from what I have seen of him to be a very sprightly and valiant gentleman . But how fares it with you , Edricson ? `` `` It is nothing , my fair lord , '' said Alleyne , who had now loosened his bassinet , which was cracked across by the Norman 's blow . Even as he spoke , however , his head swirled round , and he fell to the deck with the blood gushing from his nose and mouth . `` He will come to anon , '' said the knight , stooping over him and passing his fingers through his hair . `` I have lost one very valiant and gentle squire this day . I can ill afford to lose another . How many men have fallen ? `` `` I have pricked off the tally , '' said Aylward , who had come aboard with his lord . `` There are seven of the Winchester men , eleven seamen , your squire , young Master Terlake , and nine archers . `` `` And of the others ? `` `` They are all dead -- -save only the Norman knight who stands behind you . What would you that we should do with him ? `` `` He must hang on his own yard , '' said Sir Nigel . `` It was my vow and must be done . `` The pirate leader had stood by the bulwarks , a cord round his arms , and two stout archers on either side . At Sir Nigel 's words he started violently , and his swarthy features blanched to a livid gray . `` How , Sir Knight ? '' he cried in broken English . `` Que dites vous ? To hang , le