wagonette had topped a rise and in front of us rose the huge expanse of the moor , mottled with gnarled and craggy cairns and tors . A cold wind swept down from it and set us shivering . Somewhere there , on that desolate plain , was lurking this fiendish man , hiding in a burrow like a wild beast , his heart full of malignancy against the whole race which had cast him out . It needed but this to complete the grim suggestiveness of the barren waste , the chilling wind , and the darkling sky . Even Baskerville fell silent and pulled his overcoat more closely around him.We had left the fertile country behind and beneath us . We looked back on it now , the slanting rays of a low sun turning the streams to threads of gold and glowing on the red earth new turned by the plough and the broad tangle of the woodlands . The road in front of us grew bleaker and wilder over huge russet and olive slopes , sprinkled with giant boulders . Now and then we passed a moorland cottage , walled and roofed with stone , with no creeper to break its harsh outline . Suddenly we looked down into a cuplike depression , patched with stunted oaks and firs which had been twisted and bent by the fury of years of storm . Two high , narrow towers rose over the trees . The driver pointed with his whip . `` Baskerville Hall , '' said he.Its master had risen and was staring with flushed cheeks and shining eyes . A few minutes later we had reached the lodge-gates , a maze of fantastic tracery in wrought iron , with weather-bitten pillars on either side , blotched with lichens , and surmounted by the boars ' heads of the Baskervilles . The lodge was a ruin of black granite and bared ribs of rafters , but facing it was a new building , half constructed , the first fruit of Sir Charles 's South African gold.Through the gateway we passed into the avenue , where the wheels were again hushed amid the leaves , and the old trees shot their branches in a sombre tunnel over our heads . Baskerville shuddered as he looked up the long , dark drive to where the house glimmered like a ghost at the farther end . `` Was it here ? '' he asked in a low voice . `` No , no , the yew alley is on the other side . `` The young heir glanced round with a gloomy face . `` It 's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such a place as this , '' said he . `` It 's enough to scare any man . I 'll have a row of electric lamps up here inside of six months , and you wo n't know it again , with a thousand candle-power Swan and Edison right here in front of the hall door . `` The avenue opened into a broad expanse of turf , and the house lay before us . In the fading light I could see that the centre was a heavy block of building from which a porch projected . The whole front was draped in ivy , with a patch clipped bare here and there where a window or a coat of arms broke through the dark veil . From this central block rose the twin towers , ancient , crenelated , and pierced with many loopholes . To right and left of the turrets were more modern wings of black granite . A dull light shone through heavy mullioned windows , and from the high chimneys which rose from the steep , high-angled roof there sprang a single black column of smoke . `` Welcome , Sir Henry ! Welcome to Baskerville Hall ! `` A tall man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the door of the wagonette . The figure of a woman was silhouetted against the yellow light of the hall . She came out and helped the man to hand down our bags . `` You do n't mind my driving straight home , Sir Henry ? '' said Dr. Mortimer . `` My wife is expecting me . `` `` Surely you will stay and have some dinner ? `` `` No , I must go . I shall probably find some work awaiting me . I would stay to show you over the house , but Barrymore will be a better guide than I. Good-bye , and never hesitate night or day to send for me if I can be of service . `` The wheels died away down the drive while Sir Henry and I turned into the hall , and the door clanged heavily behind us . It was a fine apartment in which we found ourselves , large , lofty , and heavily raftered with huge baulks of age-blackened oak . In the great old-fashioned fireplace behind the high iron dogs a log-fire crackled and snapped . Sir Henry and I held out our hands to it , for we were numb from our long drive . Then we gazed round us at the high , thin window of old stained glass , the oak panelling , the stags ' heads , the coats of arms upon the walls , all dim and sombre in the subdued light of the central lamp . `` It 's just as I imagined it , '' said Sir Henry . `` Is it not the very picture of an old family home ? To think that this should be the same hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived . It strikes me solemn to think of it . `` I saw his dark face lit up with a boyish enthusiasm as he gazed about him . The light beat upon him where he stood , but long shadows trailed down the walls and hung like a black canopy above him . Barrymore had returned from taking our luggage to our rooms . He stood in front of us now with the subdued manner of a well-trained servant . He was a remarkable-looking man , tall , handsome , with a square black beard and pale , distinguished features . `` Would you wish dinner to be served at once , sir ? `` `` Is it ready ? `` `` In a very few minutes , sir . You will find hot water in your rooms . My wife and I will be happy , Sir Henry , to stay with you until you have made your fresh arrangements , but you will understand that under the new conditions this house will require a considerable staff . `` `` What new conditions ? `` `` I only meant , sir , that Sir Charles led a very retired life , and we were able to look after his wants . You would , naturally , wish to have more company , and so you will need changes in your household . `` `` Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave ? `` `` Only when it is quite convenient to you , sir . `` `` But your family have been with us for several generations , have they not ? I should be sorry to begin my life here by breaking an old family connection . `` I seemed to discern some signs of emotion upon the butler 's white face . `` I feel that also , sir , and so does my wife . But to tell the truth , sir , we were both very much attached to Sir Charles , and his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to us . I fear that we shall never again be easy in our minds at Baskerville Hall . `` `` But what do you intend to do ? `` `` I have no doubt , sir , that we shall succeed in establishing ourselves in some business . Sir Charles 's generosity has given us the means to do so . And now , sir , perhaps I had best show you to your rooms . `` A square balustraded gallery ran round the top of the old hall , approached by a double stair . From this central point two long corridors extended the whole length of the building , from which all the bedrooms opened . My own was in the same wing as Baskerville 's and almost next door to it . These rooms appeared to be much more modern than the central part of the house , and the bright paper and numerous candles did something to remove the sombre impression which our arrival had left upon my mind.But the dining-room which opened out of the hall was a place of shadow and gloom . It was a long chamber with a step separating the dais where the family sat from the lower portion reserved for their dependents . At one end a minstrel 's gallery overlooked it . Black beams shot across above our heads , with a smoke-darkened ceiling beyond them . With rows of flaring torches to light it up , and the colour and rude hilarity of an old-time banquet , it might have softened ; but now , when two black-clothed gentlemen sat in the little circle of light thrown by a shaded lamp , one 's voice became hushed and one 's spirit subdued . A dim line of ancestors , in every variety of dress , from the Elizabethan knight to the buck of the Regency , stared down upon us and daunted us by their silent company . We talked little , and I for one was glad when the meal was over and we were able to retire into the modern billiard-room and smoke a cigarette . `` My word , it is n't a very cheerful place , '' said Sir Henry . `` I suppose one can tone down to it , but I feel a bit out of the picture at present . I do n't wonder that my uncle got a little jumpy if he lived all alone in such a house as this . However , if it suits you , we will retire early tonight , and perhaps things may seem more cheerful in the morning . `` I drew aside my curtains before I went to bed and looked out from my window . It opened upon the grassy space which lay in front of the hall door . Beyond , two copses of trees moaned and swung in a rising wind . A half moon broke through the rifts of racing clouds . In its cold light I saw beyond the trees a broken fringe of rocks , and the long , low curve of the melancholy moor . I closed the curtain , feeling that my last impression was in keeping with the rest.And yet it was not quite the last . I found myself weary and yet wakeful , tossing restlessly from side to side , seeking for the sleep which would not come . Far away a chiming clock struck out the quarters of the hours , but otherwise a deathly silence lay upon the old house . And then suddenly , in the very dead of the night , there came a sound to my ears , clear , resonant , and unmistakable . It was the sob of a woman , the muffled , strangling gasp of one who is torn by an uncontrollable sorrow . I sat up in bed and listened intently . The