use our tryin ' to teach you . '' With this sarcastic comment he withdrew into himself , and refused to utter another word until the end of their journey.It was not long before this was attained . Passing down a deeply rutted lane , they came to a high stone wall which extended for a couple of hundred yards . It had a crumbling , decaying appearance , as far as could be judged in the uncertain light . This wall was broken by a single iron gate , flanked by two high pillars , each of which was surmounted by some weather-beaten heraldic device . Passing through they turned up a winding avenue , with lines of trees on either side , which shot their branches so thickly above them that they might have been driving through some sombre tunnel . This avenue terminated in an open space , in the midst of which towered a great irregular whitewashed building , which was the old Priory . All below it was swathed in darkness , but the upper windows caught the glint of the moon and emitted a pallid and sickly glimmer . The whole effect was so weird and gloomy that Kate felt her heart sink within her . The wagonette pulled up in front of the door , and Girdlestone assisted her to alight.There had been no lights or any symptoms of welcome , but as they pulled down the trunks the door opened and a little old woman appeared with a candle in her hand , which she carefully shaded from the wind while she peered out into the darkness . `` Is that Mr . Girdlestone ? '' she cried . `` Of course it is , '' the merchant said impatiently . `` Did I not telegraph and tell you that I was coming ? `` `` Yes , yes , '' she answered , hobbling forward with the light . `` And this is the young lady ? Come in , my dear , come in . We have not got things very smart yet , but they will soon come right . `` She led the way through a lofty hall into a large sitting-room , which , no doubt , had been the monkish refectory in bygone days . It looked very bleak and cold now , although a small fire sputtered and sparkled in the corner of the great iron grate . There was a pan upon the fire , and the deal table in the centre of the room was laid out roughly as for a meal . The candle which the old woman had carried in was the only light , though the flickering fire cast strange fantastic shadows in the further corners and among the great oaken rafters which formed the ceiling . `` Come up to the fire , my dear , '' said the old woman . `` Take off your cloak and warm yourself . '' She held her own shrivelled arms towards the blaze , as though her short exposure to the night air had chilled her . Glancing at her , Kate saw that her face was sharp-featured and cunning , with a loose lower lip which exposed a line of yellow teeth , and a chin which bristled with a tuft of long grey hairs.From without there came the crunching of gravel as the wagonette turned and rattled down the avenue . Kate listened to the sound of the wheels until they died away in the distance . They seemed somehow to be the last link which bound her to the human race . Her heart failed her completely , and she burst into tears . `` What 's the matter then ? '' the old woman asked , looking up at her . `` What are ye crying about ? `` `` Oh , I am so miserable and so lonely , '' she cried . `` What have I done that I should be so unhappy ? Why should I be taken to this horrible , horrible place ? `` `` What 's the matter with the place ? '' asked her withered companion . `` I do n't see nought amiss with it . Here 's Mr. Girdlestone a-comin'.He do n't grumble at the place , I 'll warr'nt . `` The merchant was not in the best of tempers , for he had had an altercation with the driver about the fare , and was cold into the bargain . `` At it again ? '' he said roughly , as he entered . `` It is I who ought to weep , I think , who have been put to all this trouble and inconvenience by your disobedience and weakness of mind . `` Kate did not answer , but sat upon a coarse deal chair beside the fire , and buried her face in her hands . All manner of vague fears and fancies filled her mind . What was Tom doing now ? How quickly he would fly to her rescue did he but know how strangely she was situated ! She determined that her very first action next morning should be to write to Mrs. Dimsdale and to tell her , not only where she was , but all that had occurred . The reflection that she could do this cheered her heart , and she managed to eat a little of the supper which the old woman had now placed upon the table . It was a rough stew of some sort , but the long journey had given an edge to their appetites , and the merchant , though usually epicurean in his tastes , ate a hearty meal.When supper was over the crone , who was addressed by Girdlestone as Jorrocks , led the way upstairs and showed Kate to her room . If the furniture of the dining-room had been Spartan in its simplicity , this was even more so , for there was nothing in it save a small iron bedstead , much rusted from want of use , and a high wooden box on which stood the simplest toilet requisites . In spite of the poverty of the apartment Kate had never been more glad to enter her luxurious chamber at home . The little carpetless room was a haven of rest where she would be left , for one night at least , to her own thoughts . As she lay in bed , however , she could hear far away the subdued murmur of Girdlestone 's voice and the shrill tones of the old woman . They were in deep and animated converse . Though they were too far distant for her to distinguish a word , something told her that their talk was about herself , and the same instinct assured her that it boded her little good.When she awoke in the morning it was some little time before she could realize where she was or recall the events which had made such a sudden change in her life . The bare , cold room , with the whitewashed walls , and the narrow bed upon which she lay , brought back to her the recollection of a hospital ward which she had seen in Edinburgh , and her first thought was that she had had some accident and had been conveyed to some such establishment . The delusion was only momentary , however , for her true situation came back to her at once with all its vague horror . Of the two , she would have preferred that her first impression had been correct.The small window of her apartment was covered by a dirty muslin blind . She rose and , drawing it aside , looked eagerly out . From what she had seen the night before she had hoped that this prison to which she had been conveyed might make amends for its loneliness by some degree of natural beauty . The scene which now met her eyes soon dispelled any expectations of the sort . The avenue with its trees lay on the other side of the house . From her window nothing was visible but a dreary expanse of bog-land and mudbanks stretching down to the sea . At high tide this enormous waste of dreariness and filth was covered by the water , but at present it lay before her in all its naked hideousness , the very type of dullness and desolation . Here and there a few scattered reeds , or an unhealthy greenish scum upon the mud , gave a touch of colour to the scene ; but for the most part the great plain was all of the same sombre mud tint , with its monotony broken only by the white flecks where the swarms of gulls and kittiwakes had settled in the hope of picking up whatever had been left by the receding tide . Away across the broad surface a line of sparkling foam marked the fringe of the ocean , which stretched away to the horizon.A mile or two to the eastward of her Kate saw some sign of houses , and a blue smoke which flickered up into the air . This she guessed to be the fishing village of Lea Claxton , which the driver had mentioned the night before . She felt , as she gazed at the little hamlet and the masts of the boats in front of it , that she was not alone in the world , and that even in this strange and desolate place there were honest hearts to whom as a last resource she could appeal.She was still standing at the window when there came a knocking at the door , and she heard the voice of the old woman asking if she were awake . `` Breakfast is ready , '' she said , `` and the master is a-wondering why you bea n't down . `` On this summons Kate hastened her toilet and made her way down the old winding stair to the room in which they had supped the night before . Surely Girdlestone must have had a heart of flint not to be melted by the sight of that fair , fresh face . His features set as hard as adamant as she entered the room , and he looked at her with eyes which were puckered and angry . `` You are late , '' he said coldly . `` You must remember that you are not inEccleston Square . 'An idle soul shall suffer hunger , ' says the prophet.You are here to be disciplined , and disciplined you shall be . `` `` I am sorry , '' she answered . `` I think that I must have been tired by our journey . `` The vast room looked even more comfortless and bleak than on the preceding evening . On the table was a plate of ham and eggs . John Girdlestone served out a portion , and pushed it in her direction . She sat down on one of the rough wooden chairs and ate listlessly , wondering how all this was going to end.After breakfast Girdlestone ordered the old woman out of the room , and , standing in front of the fire with his long legs apart and his hands behind his back , he told her in harsh concise language what his intentions were . `` I had long determined , '' he said , `` that if you ran counter to my wishes , and persisted in your infatuated affection for that scapegrace , I should remove you to some secluded spot , where you might reconsider your conduct and form better resolutions for the future . This country house answered the purpose admirably , and as