the strangers emptied their six-shooters over the heads of the crowd , and they broke and scattered , some of them rushing wildly back to their homes in Vermissa.When a few of the bravest had rallied , and there was a return to the mine , the murderous gang had vanished in the mists of morning , without a single witness being able to swear to the identity of these men who in front of a hundred spectators had wrought this double crime.Scanlan and McMurdo made their way back ; Scanlan somewhat subdued , for it was the first murder job that he had seen with his own eyes , and it appeared less funny than he had been led to believe . The horrible screams of the dead manager 's wife pursued them as they hurried to the town . McMurdo was absorbed and silent ; but he showed no sympathy for the weakening of his companion . `` Sure , it is like a war , '' he repeated . `` What is it but a war between us and them , and we hit back where we best can . `` There was high revel in the lodge room at the Union House that night , not only over the killing of the manager and engineer of the Crow Hill mine , which would bring this organization into line with the other blackmailed and terror-stricken companies of the district , but also over a distant triumph which had been wrought by the hands of the lodge itself.It would appear that when the County Delegate had sent over five good men to strike a blow in Vermissa , he had demanded that in return three Vermissa men should be secretly selected and sent across to kill William Hales of Stake Royal , one of the best known and most popular mine owners in the Gilmerton district , a man who was believed not to have an enemy in the world ; for he was in all ways a model employer . He had insisted , however , upon efficiency in the work , and had , therefore , paid off certain drunken and idle employees who were members of the all-powerful society . Coffin notices hung outside his door had not weakened his resolution , and so in a free , civilized country he found himself condemned to death.The execution had now been duly carried out . Ted Baldwin , who sprawled now in the seat of honour beside the Bodymaster , had been chief of the party . His flushed face and glazed , bloodshot eyes told of sleeplessness and drink . He and his two comrades had spent the night before among the mountains . They were unkempt and weather-stained . But no heroes , returning from a forlorn hope , could have had a warmer welcome from their comrades.The story was told and retold amid cries of delight and shouts of laughter . They had waited for their man as he drove home at nightfall , taking their station at the top of a steep hill , where his horse must be at a walk . He was so furred to keep out the cold that he could not lay his hand on his pistol . They had pulled him out and shot him again and again . He had screamed for mercy . The screams were repeated for the amusement of the lodge . `` Let 's hear again how he squealed , '' they cried.None of them knew the man ; but there is eternal drama in a killing , and they had shown the Scowrers of Gilmerton that the Vermissa men were to be relied upon.There had been one contretemps ; for a man and his wife had driven up while they were still emptying their revolvers into the silent body . It had been suggested that they should shoot them both ; but they were harmless folk who were not connected with the mines , so they were sternly bidden to drive on and keep silent , lest a worse thing befall them . And so the blood-mottled figure had been left as a warning to all such hard-hearted employers , and the three noble avengers had hurried off into the mountains where unbroken nature comes down to the very edge of the furnaces and the slag heaps . Here they were , safe and sound , their work well done , and the plaudits of their companions in their ears.It had been a great day for the Scowrers . The shadow had fallen even darker over the valley . But as the wise general chooses the moment of victory in which to redouble his efforts , so that his foes may have no time to steady themselves after disaster , so Boss McGinty , looking out upon the scene of his operations with his brooding and malicious eyes , had devised a new attack upon those who opposed him . That very night , as the half-drunken company broke up , he touched McMurdo on the arm and led him aside into that inner room where they had their first interview . `` See here , my lad , '' said he , `` I 've got a job that 's worthy of you at last . You 'll have the doing of it in your own hands . `` `` Proud I am to hear it , '' McMurdo answered . `` You can take two men with you -- -Manders and Reilly . They have been warned for service . We 'll never be right in this district until Chester Wilcox has been settled , and you 'll have the thanks of every lodge in the coal fields if you can down him . `` `` I 'll do my best , anyhow . Who is he , and where shall I find him ? `` McGinty took his eternal half-chewed , half-smoked cigar from the corner of his mouth , and proceeded to draw a rough diagram on a page torn from his notebook . `` He 's the chief foreman of the Iron Dike Company . He 's a hard citizen , an old colour sergeant of the war , all scars and grizzle . We 've had two tries at him ; but had no luck , and Jim Carnaway lost his life over it . Now it 's for you to take it over . That 's the house -- -all alone at the Iron Dike crossroad , same as you see here on the map -- -without another within earshot . It 's no good by day . He 's armed and shoots quick and straight , with no questions asked . But at night -- -well , there he is with his wife , three children , and a hired help . You ca n't pick or choose . It 's all or none . If you could get a bag of blasting powder at the front door with a slow match to it -- - '' '' What 's the man done ? `` `` Did n't I tell you he shot Jim Carnaway ? `` `` Why did he shoot him ? `` `` What in thunder has that to do with you ? Carnaway was about his house at night , and he shot him . That 's enough for me and you . You 've got to settle the thing right . `` `` There 's these two women and the children . Do they go up too ? `` `` They have to -- -else how can we get him ? `` `` It seems hard on them ; for they 've done nothing . `` `` What sort of fool 's talk is this ? Do you back out ? `` `` Easy , Councillor , easy ! What have I ever said or done that you should think I would be after standing back from an order of the Bodymaster of my own lodge ? If it 's right or if it 's wrong , it 's for you to decide . `` `` You 'll do it , then ? `` `` Of course I will do it. '' '' When ? `` `` Well , you had best give me a night or two that I may see the house and make my plans . Then -- - '' '' Very good , '' said McGinty , shaking him by the hand . `` I leave it with you . It will be a great day when you bring us the news . It 's just the last stroke that will bring them all to their knees . `` McMurdo thought long and deeply over the commission which had been so suddenly placed in his hands . The isolated house in which Chester Wilcox lived was about five miles off in an adjacent valley . That very night he started off all alone to prepare for the attempt . It was daylight before he returned from his reconnaissance . Next day he interviewed his two subordinates , Manders and Reilly , reckless youngsters who were as elated as if it were a deer-hunt.Two nights later they met outside the town , all three armed , and one of them carrying a sack stuffed with the powder which was used in the quarries . It was two in the morning before they came to the lonely house . The night was a windy one , with broken clouds drifting swiftly across the face of a three-quarter moon . They had been warned to be on their guard against bloodhounds ; so they moved forward cautiously , with their pistols cocked in their hands . But there was no sound save the howling of the wind , and no movement but the swaying branches above them.McMurdo listened at the door of the lonely house ; but all was still within . Then he leaned the powder bag against it , ripped a hole in it with his knife , and attached the fuse . When it was well alight he and his two companions took to their heels , and were some distance off , safe and snug in a sheltering ditch , before the shattering roar of the explosion , with the low , deep rumble of the collapsing building , told them that their work was done . No cleaner job had ever been carried out in the bloodstained annals of the society.But alas that work so well organized and boldly carried out should all have gone for nothing ! Warned by the fate of the various victims , and knowing that he was marked down for destruction , Chester Wilcox had moved himself and his family only the day before to some safer and less known quarters , where a guard of police should watch over them . It was an empty house which had been torn down by the gunpowder , and the grim old colour sergeant of the war was still teaching discipline to the miners of Iron Dike . `` Leave him to me , '' said McMurdo . `` He 's my man , and I 'll get him sure if I have to wait a year for him . `` A vote of thanks and confidence was passed in full lodge , and so for the time the matter ended . When a few weeks later it was reported in the papers that Wilcox had been shot at from an ambuscade , it was an open secret that McMurdo was still at work upon his unfinished job.Such were the methods of the Society of Freemen , and such were the deeds of the Scowrers by which they spread their rule of fear over the great and rich