bound to say that you came well out of it . You see , it 's all up to you and me , for this old Summerlee man will want dry-nursin ' from the first . By the way , are you by any chance the Malone who is expected to get his Rugby cap for Ireland ? `` `` A reserve , perhaps . `` `` I thought I remembered your face . Why , I was there when you got that try against Richmond -- -as fine a swervin ' run as I saw the whole season . I never miss a Rugby match if I can help it , for it is the manliest game we have left . Well , I did n't ask you in here just to talk sport . We 've got to fix our business . Here are the sailin 's , on the first page of the Times . There 's a Booth boat for Para next Wednesday week , and if the Professor and you can work it , I think we should take it -- -what ? Very good , I 'll fix it with him . What about your outfit ? `` `` My paper will see to that . `` `` Can you shoot ? `` `` About average Territorial standard . `` `` Good Lord ! as bad as that ? It 's the last thing you young fellahs think of learnin ' . You 're all bees without stings , so far as lookin ' after the hive goes . You 'll look silly , some o ' these days , when someone comes along an ' sneaks the honey . But you 'll need to hold your gun straight in South America , for , unless our friend the Professor is a madman or a liar , we may see some queer things before we get back . What gun have you ? `` He crossed to an oaken cupboard , and as he threw it open I caught a glimpse of glistening rows of parallel barrels , like the pipes of an organ . `` I 'll see what I can spare you out of my own battery , '' said he.One by one he took out a succession of beautiful rifles , opening and shutting them with a snap and a clang , and then patting them as he put them back into the rack as tenderly as a mother would fondle her children . `` This is a Bland 's .577 axite express , '' said he . `` I got that big fellow with it . '' He glanced up at the white rhinoceros . `` Ten more yards , and he 'd would have added me to HIS collection . 'On that conical bullet his one chance hangs , 'T is the weak one 's advantage fair . 'Hope you know your Gordon , for he 's the poet of the horse and the gun and the man that handles both . Now , here 's a useful tool -- -.470 , telescopic sight , double ejector , point-blank up to three-fifty . That 's the rifle I used against the Peruvian slave-drivers three years ago . I was the flail of the Lord up in those parts , I may tell you , though you wo n't find it in any Blue-book . There are times , young fellah , when every one of us must make a stand for human right and justice , or you never feel clean again . That 's why I made a little war on my own . Declared it myself , waged it myself , ended it myself . Each of those nicks is for a slave murderer -- -a good row of them -- -what ? That big one is for Pedro Lopez , the king of them all , that I killed in a backwater of the Putomayo River . Now , here 's something that would do for you . '' He took out a beautiful brown-and-silver rifle . `` Well rubbered at the stock , sharply sighted , five cartridges to the clip . You can trust your life to that . '' He handed it to me and closed the door of his oak cabinet . `` By the way , '' he continued , coming back to his chair , `` what do you know of this Professor Challenger ? `` `` I never saw him till to-day . `` `` Well , neither did I . It 's funny we should both sail under sealed orders from a man we do n't know . He seemed an uppish old bird . His brothers of science do n't seem too fond of him , either . How came you to take an interest in the affair ? `` I told him shortly my experiences of the morning , and he listened intently . Then he drew out a map of South America and laid it on the table . `` I believe every single word he said to you was the truth , '' said he , earnestly , `` and , mind you , I have something to go on when I speak like that . South America is a place I love , and I think , if you take it right through from Darien to Fuego , it 's the grandest , richest , most wonderful bit of earth upon this planet . People do n't know it yet , and do n't realize what it may become . I 've been up an ' down it from end to end , and had two dry seasons in those very parts , as I told you when I spoke of the war I made on the slave-dealers . Well , when I was up there I heard some yarns of the same kind -- -traditions of Indians and the like , but with somethin ' behind them , no doubt . The more you knew of that country , young fellah , the more you would understand that anythin ' was possible -- -ANYTHIN ' ! There are just some narrow water-lanes along which folk travel , and outside that it is all darkness . Now , down here in the Matto Grande '' -- -he swept his cigar over a part of the map -- - '' or up in this corner where three countries meet , nothin ' would surprise me . As that chap said to-night , there are fifty-thousand miles of water-way runnin ' through a forest that is very near the size of Europe . You and I could be as far away from each other as Scotland is from Constantinople , and yet each of us be in the same great Brazilian forest . Man has just made a track here and a scrape there in the maze . Why , the river rises and falls the best part of forty feet , and half the country is a morass that you ca n't pass over . Why should n't somethin ' new and wonderful lie in such a country ? And why should n't we be the men to find it out ? Besides , '' he added , his queer , gaunt face shining with delight , `` there 's a sportin ' risk in every mile of it . I 'm like an old golf-ball -- -I 've had all the white paint knocked off me long ago . Life can whack me about now , and it ca n't leave a mark . But a sportin ' risk , young fellah , that 's the salt of existence . Then it 's worth livin ' again . We 're all gettin ' a deal too soft and dull and comfy . Give me the great waste lands and the wide spaces , with a gun in my fist and somethin ' to look for that 's worth findin ' . I 've tried war and steeplechasin ' and aeroplanes , but this huntin ' of beasts that look like a lobster-supper dream is a brand-new sensation . '' He chuckled with glee at the prospect.Perhaps I have dwelt too long upon this new acquaintance , but he is to be my comrade for many a day , and so I have tried to set him down as I first saw him , with his quaint personality and his queer little tricks of speech and of thought . It was only the need of getting in the account of my meeting which drew me at last from his company . I left him seated amid his pink radiance , oiling the lock of his favorite rifle , while he still chuckled to himself at the thought of the adventures which awaited us . It was very clear to me that if dangers lay before us I could not in all England have found a cooler head or a braver spirit with which to share them.That night , wearied as I was after the wonderful happenings of the day , I sat late with McArdle , the news editor , explaining to him the whole situation , which he thought important enough to bring next morning before the notice of Sir George Beaumont , the chief . It was agreed that I should write home full accounts of my adventures in the shape of successive letters to McArdle , and that these should either be edited for the Gazette as they arrived , or held back to be published later , according to the wishes of Professor Challenger , since we could not yet know what conditions he might attach to those directions which should guide us to the unknown land . In response to a telephone inquiry , we received nothing more definite than a fulmination against the Press , ending up with the remark that if we would notify our boat he would hand us any directions which he might think it proper to give us at the moment of starting . A second question from us failed to elicit any answer at all , save a plaintive bleat from his wife to the effect that her husband was in a very violent temper already , and that she hoped we would do nothing to make it worse . A third attempt , later in the day , provoked a terrific crash , and a subsequent message from the Central Exchange that Professor Challenger 's receiver had been shattered . After that we abandoned all attempt at communication.And now my patient readers , I can address you directly no longer . From now onwards ( if , indeed , any continuation of this narrative should ever reach you ) it can only be through the paper which I represent . In the hands of the editor I leave this account of the events which have led up to one of the most remarkable expeditions of all time , so that if I never return to England there shall be some record as to how the affair came about . I am writing these last lines in the saloon of the Booth liner Francisca , and they will go back by the pilot to the keeping of Mr. McArdle . Let me draw one last picture before I close the notebook -- -a picture which is the last memory of the old country which I bear away with me . It is a wet , foggy morning in the late spring ; a thin , cold rain is falling . Three shining mackintoshed figures are walking down the quay , making for the gang-plank of the great liner from which the blue-peter is flying . In front of them a porter pushes a