. You know Tommy of the 81st ? He gave me good advice : 'Always sew a fifty-pound note into the lining of each waistcoat you 've got . Then you ca n't go short . ' Tried it once , and , be George ! if me demned man-servant did n't stale that very waistcoat and sell it for six and sixpence . You 're not going , are you ? `` `` Yes ; I 'm due in the City . The governor leaves at four . Good-bye.Shall I see you to-night ? `` `` Card-room , as per usual , '' quoth the clean-shaven warrior . He looked after the retreating figure of his late companion with anything but a pleasant expression upon his face . The young man happened to glance round as he was half-way down the street , on which the major smiled after him paternally , and gave a merry flourish with his stick.As the old soldier stood on the top of the club steps , pompous , pigeon-chested , and respectable , posing himself as though he had been placed there for the inspection of passers-by as a sample of the aristocracy within , he made several attempts to air his grievances to passing members touching the question of the expectant Jorrocks and the missing purse . Beyond , however , eliciting many sallies of wit from the younger spirits , for it was part of the major 's policy to lay himself open to be a butt , his laudable perseverance was entirely thrown away . At last he gave it up in disgust , and raising his stick hailed a passing 'bus , into which he sprang , taking a searching glance round to see that no one was following him . After a drive which brought him to the other side of the City , he got out in a broad , busy thoroughfare , lined with large shops . A narrow turning from the main artery led into a long , dingy street , consisting of very high smoke-coloured houses , which ran parallel to the other , and presented as great a contrast to it as the back of a painting does to the front.Down this sombre avenue the major strutted with all his wonted pomposity , until about half-way down he reached a tall , grim-looking house , with many notices of `` apartments '' glaring from the windows . The line of railings which separated this house from the street was rusty , and broken and the whole place had a flavour of mildew . The major walked briskly up the stone steps , hollowed out by the feet of generations of lodgers , and pushing open the great splotchy door , which bore upon it a brass plate indicating that the establishment was kept by a Mrs. Robins , he walked into the hall with the air of one who treads familiar ground . Up one flight of stairs , up two flights of stairs , and up three flights of stairs did he climb , until on the fourth landing he pushed open a door and found himself in a small room , which formed for the nonce the `` little place '' about which he was wont at the club to make depreciatory allusions , so skilfully introduced that the listener was left in doubt as to whether the major was the happy possessor of a country house and grounds , or whether he merely owned a large suburban villa . Even this modest sanctum was not entirely the major 's own , as was shown by the presence of a ruddy-faced man with a long , tawny beard , who sat on one side of the empty fire-place , puffing at a great china-bowled pipe , and comporting himself with an ease which showed that he was no casual visitor.As the other entered , the man in the chair gave vent to a guttural grunt without removing the mouthpiece of his pipe from between his lips ; and Major Clutterbuck returned the greeting with an off-handed nod . His next proceeding was to take off his glossy hat and pack it away in a hat-box . He then removed his coat , his collar , his tie , and his gaiters , with equal solicitude , and put them in a place of safety . After which he donned a long purple dressing-gown and a smoking-cap , in which garb he performed the first steps of a mazurka as a sign of the additional ease which he experienced . `` Not much to dance about either , me boy , '' the old soldier said , seating himself in a camp-chair and putting his feet upon another one . `` Bedad , we 're all on the verge . Unless luck takes a turn there 's no saying what may become of us . `` `` We have been badder than this before now many a time , '' said the yellow-bearded man , in an accent which proclaimed him to be a German . `` My money vill come , or you vill vin , or something vill arrive to set all things right . `` `` Let 's hope so , '' the major said fervently . `` It 's a mercy to get out of these stiff and starched clothes ; but I have to be careful of them , for me tailor -- -bad cess to him ! -- -will give no credit , and there 's little of the riddy knocking about . Without good clothes on me back I 'd be like a sweeper without a broom . `` The German nodded his intense appreciation of the fact , and puffed a great blue cloud to the ceiling . Sigismond von Baumser was a political refugee from the fatherland , who had managed to become foreign clerk in a small London firm , an occupation which just enabled him to keep body and soul together . He and the major had lodged in different rooms in another establishment until some common leaven of Bohemianism had brought them together . When circumstances had driven them out of their former abode , it had occurred to the major that by sharing his rooms with Von Baumser he would diminish his own expenses , and at the same time secure an agreeable companion , for the veteran was a sociable soul in his unofficial hours and had all the Hibernian dislike to solitude . The arrangement commended itself to the German , for he had a profound admiration for the other 's versatile talents and varied experiences ; so he grunted an acquiescence and the thing was done . When the major 's luck was good there were brave times in the little fourth floor back . On the other hand , if any slice of good fortune came in the German 's way , the major had a fair share of the prosperity . During the hard times which intervened between these gleams of opulence , the pair roughed it uncomplainingly as best they might . The major would sometimes create a fictitious splendour by dilating upon the beauties of Castle Dunross , in county Mayo , which is the headquarters of all the Clutterbucks . `` We 'll go and live there some day , me boy , '' he would say , slapping his comrade on the back . `` It will be mine from the dungeons forty foot below the ground , right up , bedad , to the flagstaff from which the imblem of loyalty flaunts the breeze . '' At these speeches the simple-minded German used to rub his great red hands together with satisfaction , and feel as pleased as though he had actually been presented with the fee simple of the castle in question . `` Have you had your letter ? '' the major asked with interest , rolling a cigarette between his fingers . The German was expecting his quarterly remittance from his friends at home , and they were both anxiously awaiting it.Von Baumser shook his head . `` Bad luck to them ! they should have sent a wake ago . You should do what Jimmy Towler did . You did n't know Towler , of the Sappers ? When he and I were souldiering in Canada he was vexed at the allowance which he had from ould Sir Oliver , his uncle , not turning up at the right time . 'Ged , Toby , ' he says to me , 'I 'll warm the old rascal up . ' So he sits down and writes a letter to his uncle , in which he told him his unbusiness-like ways would be the ruin of them , and more to the same effect . When Sir Oliver got the letter he was in such a divil 's own rage , that while he was dictating a codicil to his will he tumbled off the chair in a fit , and Jimmy came in for a clean siven thousand a year . `` `` Dat was more dan he deserved , '' the German remarked . `` But you -- -how do you stand for money ? `` Major Clutterbuck took ten sovereigns out of his trouser pocket and placed them upon the table . `` You know me law , '' he said ; `` I never , on any consideration , break into these . You ca n't sit down to play cards for high stakes with less in your purse , and if I was to change one , be George ! they 'd all go like a whiff o ' smoke . The Lord knows when I 'd get a start again then . Bar this money I 've hardly a pinny . `` `` Nor me , '' said Von Baumser despondently , slapping his pockets . `` Niver mind , me boy ! What 's in the common purse , I wonder ? `` He looked up at a little leather bag which hung from a brass nail on the wall . In flush times they were wont to deposit small sums in this , on which they might fall back in their hours of need . `` Not much , I fear , '' the other said , shaking his head . `` Well , now , we want something to pull us together on a dull day like this . Suppose we send out for a bottle of sparkling , eh ? `` `` Not enough money , '' the other objected . `` Well , well , let 's have something cheaper . Beaune , now ; Beaune 's a good comforting sort of drink . What d 'ye say to splitting a bottle of Beaune , and paying for it from the common purse ? `` `` Not enough money , '' the other persisted doggedly . `` Well , claret be it , '' sighed the major . `` Maybe it 's better in this sort of weather . Let us send Susan out for a bottle of claret ? `` The German took down the little leather bag and turned it upside down.A threepenny-piece and a penny rolled out . `` Dat 's all , '' he said . `` Not enough for claret . `` `` But there is for beer , '' cried the major radiantly . `` Bedad , it 's just the time for a quart of fourpinny . I remimber ould Gilder , when he was our chief in India , used to say that a man who got beyond enjoying beer and a clay pipe at a pinch was either an ass or a coxcomb . He smoked