policeman was standing , leaning his back against the post in so natural an attitude that it was hard to realize that he was not alive , while at his feet there lay a ragged newsboy with his bundle of papers on the ground beside him . A paper-cart had got blocked in the crowd , and we could read in large letters , black upon yellow , `` Scene at Lord 's . County Match Interrupted . '' This must have been the earliest edition , for there were other placards bearing the legend , `` Is It the End ? Great Scientist 's Warning . '' And another , `` Is Challenger Justified ? Ominous Rumours . `` Challenger pointed the latter placard out to his wife , as it thrust itself like a banner above the throng . I could see him throw out his chest and stroke his beard as he looked at it . It pleased and flattered that complex mind to think that London had died with his name and his words still present in their thoughts . His feelings were so evident that they aroused the sardonic comment of his colleague . `` In the limelight to the last , Challenger , '' he remarked . `` So it would appear , '' he answered complacently . `` Well , '' he added as he looked down the long vista of the radiating streets , all silent and all choked up with death , `` I really see no purpose to be served by our staying any longer in London . I suggest that we return at once to Rotherfield and then take counsel as to how we shall most profitably employ the years which lie before us . `` Only one other picture shall I give of the scenes which we carried back in our memories from the dead city . It is a glimpse which we had of the interior of the old church of St. Mary 's , which is at the very point where our car was awaiting us . Picking our way among the prostrate figures upon the steps , we pushed open the swing door and entered . It was a wonderful sight . The church was crammed from end to end with kneeling figures in every posture of supplication and abasement . At the last dreadful moment , brought suddenly face to face with the realities of life , those terrific realities which hang over us even while we follow the shadows , the terrified people had rushed into those old city churches which for generations had hardly ever held a congregation . There they huddled as close as they could kneel , many of them in their agitation still wearing their hats , while above them in the pulpit a young man in lay dress had apparently been addressing them when he and they had been overwhelmed by the same fate . He lay now , like Punch in his booth , with his head and two limp arms hanging over the ledge of the pulpit . It was a nightmare , the grey , dusty church , the rows of agonized figures , the dimness and silence of it all . We moved about with hushed whispers , walking upon our tip-toes.And then suddenly I had an idea . At one corner of the church , near the door , stood the ancient font , and behind it a deep recess in which there hung the ropes for the bell-ringers . Why should we not send a message out over London which would attract to us anyone who might still be alive ? I ran across , and pulling at the list-covered rope , I was surprised to find how difficult it was to swing the bell . Lord John had followed me . `` By George , young fellah ! '' said he , pulling off his coat . `` You 've hit on a dooced good notion . Give me a grip and we 'll soon have a move on it . `` But , even then , so heavy was the bell that it was not until Challenger and Summerlee had added their weight to ours that we heard the roaring and clanging above our heads which told us that the great clapper was ringing out its music . Far over dead London resounded our message of comradeship and hope to any fellow-man surviving . It cheered our own hearts , that strong , metallic call , and we turned the more earnestly to our work , dragged two feet off the earth with each upward jerk of the rope , but all straining together on the downward heave , Challenger the lowest of all , bending all his great strength to the task and flopping up and down like a monstrous bull-frog , croaking with every pull . It was at that moment that an artist might have taken a picture of the four adventurers , the comrades of many strange perils in the past , whom fate had now chosen for so supreme an experience . For half an hour we worked , the sweat dropping from our faces , our arms and backs aching with the exertion . Then we went out into the portico of the church and looked eagerly up and down the silent , crowded streets . Not a sound , not a motion , in answer to our summons . `` It 's no use . No one is left , '' I cried . `` We can do nothing more , '' said Mrs . Challenger . `` For God 's sake , George , let us get back to Rotherfield . Another hour of this dreadful , silent city would drive me mad . `` We got into the car without another word . Lord John backed her round and turned her to the south . To us the chapter seemed closed . Little did we foresee the strange new chapter which was to open.And now I come to the end of this extraordinary incident , so overshadowing in its importance , not only in our own small , individual lives , but in the general history of the human race . As I said when I began my narrative , when that history comes to be written , this occurrence will surely stand out among all other events like a mountain towering among its foothills . Our generation has been reserved for a very special fate since it has been chosen to experience so wonderful a thing . How long its effect may last -- -how long mankind may preserve the humility and reverence which this great shock has taught it -- -can only be shown by the future . I think it is safe to say that things can never be quite the same again . Never can one realize how powerless and ignorant one is , and how one is upheld by an unseen hand , until for an instant that hand has seemed to close and to crush . Death has been imminent upon us . We know that at any moment it may be again . That grim presence shadows our lives , but who can deny that in that shadow the sense of duty , the feeling of sobriety and responsibility , the appreciation of the gravity and of the objects of life , the earnest desire to develop and improve , have grown and become real with us to a degree that has leavened our whole society from end to end ? It is something beyond sects and beyond dogmas . It is rather an alteration of perspective , a shifting of our sense of proportion , a vivid realization that we are insignificant and evanescent creatures , existing on sufferance and at the mercy of the first chill wind from the unknown . But if the world has grown graver with this knowledge it is not , I think , a sadder place in consequence . Surely we are agreed that the more sober and restrained pleasures of the present are deeper as well as wiser than the noisy , foolish hustle which passed so often for enjoyment in the days of old -- -days so recent and yet already so inconceivable . Those empty lives which were wasted in aimless visiting and being visited , in the worry of great and unnecessary households , in the arranging and eating of elaborate and tedious meals , have now found rest and health in the reading , the music , the gentle family communion which comes from a simpler and saner division of their time . With greater health and greater pleasure they are richer than before , even after they have paid those increased contributions to the common fund which have so raised the standard of life in these islands.There is some clash of opinion as to the exact hour of the great awakening . It is generally agreed that , apart from the difference of clocks , there may have been local causes which influenced the action of the poison . Certainly , in each separate district the resurrection was practically simultaneous . There are numerous witnesses that Big Ben pointed to ten minutes past six at the moment . The Astronomer Royal has fixed the Greenwich time at twelve past six . On the other hand , Laird Johnson , a very capable East Anglia observer , has recorded six-twenty as the hour . In the Hebrides it was as late as seven . In our own case there can be no doubt whatever , for I was seated in Challenger 's study with his carefully tested chronometer in front of me at the moment . The hour was a quarter-past six.An enormous depression was weighing upon my spirits . The cumulative effect of all the dreadful sights which we had seen upon our journey was heavy upon my soul . With my abounding animal health and great physical energy any kind of mental clouding was a rare event . I had the Irish faculty of seeing some gleam of humor in every darkness . But now the obscurity was appalling and unrelieved . The others were downstairs making their plans for the future . I sat by the open window , my chin resting upon my hand and my mind absorbed in the misery of our situation . Could we continue to live ? That was the question which I had begun to ask myself . Was it possible to exist upon a dead world ? Just as in physics the greater body draws to itself the lesser , would we not feel an overpowering attraction from that vast body of humanity which had passed into the unknown ? How would the end come ? Would it be from a return of the poison ? Or would the earth be uninhabitable from the mephitic products of universal decay ? Or , finally , might our awful situation prey upon and unbalance our minds ? A group of insane folk upon a dead world ! My mind was brooding upon this last dreadful idea when some slight noise caused me to look down upon the road beneath me . The old cab horse was coming up the hill ! I was conscious at the same instant of the twittering of birds , of someone coughing in the yard below , and of a background of movement in the landscape . And yet I remember that it was that absurd , emaciated , superannuated cab-horse which held my gaze . Slowly and wheezily it was climbing the slope . Then my eye traveled to the driver sitting hunched up upon the box and finally to the young man who was leaning out of