lasting effect upon the knowledge and literature of your own country . Farewell ! `` `` And am I also to see no more of you ? '' I asked . `` Unless you will walk with me along the sea-shore , '' he answered . `` But you have already been out this morning , and may be tired . I ask too much of you . `` `` Nay , I should be delighted to come , '' I responded from my heart , and we set off together , accompanied for some little distance by my father , who would gladly , I could see , have reopened the Sanscrit controversy , had not his stock of breath been too limited to allow of his talking and walking at the same time . `` He is a learned man , '' Ram Singh remarked , after we had left him behind , `` but , like many another , he is intolerant towards opinions which differ from his own . He will know better some day . `` I made no answer to this observation , and we trudged along for a time in silence , keeping well down to the water 's edge , where the sands afforded a good foothold.The sand dunes which lined the coast formed a continuous ridge upon our left , cutting us off entirely from all human observation , while on the right the broad Channel stretched away with hardly a sail to break its silvery uniformity . The Buddhist priest and I were absolutely alone with Nature.I could not help reflecting that if he were really the dangerous man that the mate affected to consider him , or that might be inferred from the words of General Heatherstone , I had placed myself completely in his power.Yet such was the majestic benignity of the man 's aspect , and the unruffled serenity of his deep , dark eyes , that I could afford in his presence to let fear and suspicion blow past me as lightly as the breeze which whistled round us . His face might be stern , and even terrible , but I felt that he could never be unjust.As I glanced from time to time at his noble profile and the sweep of his jet-black beard , his rough-spun tweed travelling suit struck me with an almost painful sense of incongruity , and I re-clothed him in my imagination with the grand , sweeping Oriental costume which is the fitting and proper frame for such a picture -- -the only garb which does not detract from the dignity and grace of the wearer.The place to which he led me was a small fisher cottage which had been deserted some years before by its tenant , but still stood gaunt and bare , with the thatch partly blown away and the windows and doors in sad disrepair . This dwelling , which the poorest Scotch beggar would have shrunk from , was the one which these singular men had preferred to the proffered hospitality of the laird 's house . A small garden , now a mass of tangled brambles , stood round it , and through this my acquaintance picked his way to the ruined door . He glanced into the house and then waved his hand for me to follow him . `` You have now an opportunity , '' he said , in a subdued , reverential voice , `` of seeing a spectacle which few Europeans have had the privilege of beholding . Inside that cottage you will find two Yogis -- -men who are only one remove from the highest plane of adeptship . They are both wrapped in an ecstatic trance , otherwise I should not venture to obtrude your presence upon them . Their astral bodies have departed from them , to be present at the feast of lamps in the holy Lamasery of Rudok in Tibet . Tread lightly lest by stimulating their corporeal functions you recall them before their devotions are completed . `` Walking slowly and on tiptoe , I picked my way through the weed-grown garden , and peered through the open doorway.There was no furniture in the dreary interior , nor anything to cover the uneven floor save a litter of fresh straw in a corner.Among this straw two men were crouching , the one small and wizened , the other large-boned and gaunt , with their legs crossed in Oriental fashion and their heads sunk upon their breasts . Neither of them looked up , or took the smallest notice of our presence.They were so still and silent that they might have been two bronze statues but for the slow and measured rhythm of their breathing . Their faces , however , had a peculiar , ashen-grey colour , very different from the healthy brown of my companion 's , and I observed , on stooping my head , that only the whites of their eyes were visible , the balls being turned upwards beneath the lids.In front of them upon a small mat lay an earthenware pitcher of water and half-a-loaf of bread , together with a sheet of paper inscribed with certain cabalistic characters . Ram Singh glanced at these , and then , motioning to me to withdraw , followed me out into the garden . `` I am not to disturb them until ten o'clock , '' he said . `` You have now seen in operation one of the grandest results of our occult philosophy , the dissociation of spirit from body . Not only are the spirits of these holy men standing at the present moment by the banks of the Ganges , but those spirits are clothed in a material covering so identical with their real bodies that none of the faithful will ever doubt that Lal Hoomi and Mowdar Khan are actually among them . This is accomplished by our power of resolving an object into its chemical atoms , of conveying these atoms with a speed which exceeds that of lightning to any given spot , and of there re-precipitating them and compelling them to retake their original form . Of old , in the days of our ignorance , it was necessary to convey the whole body in this way , but we have since found that it was as easy and more convenient to transmit material enough merely to build up an outside shell or semblance . This we have termed the astral body . `` `` But if you can transmit your spirits so readily , '' I observed , `` why should they be accompanied by any body at all ? `` `` In communicating with brother initiates we are able to employ our spirits only , but when we wish to come in contact with ordinary mankind it is essential that we should appear in some form which they can see and comprehend . `` `` You have interested me deeply in all that you have told me , '' I said , grasping the hand which Ram Singh had held out to me as a sign that our interview was at an end . `` I shall often think of our short acquaintance . `` `` You will derive much benefit from it , '' he said slowly , still holding my hand and looking gravely and sadly into my eyes . `` You must remember that what will happen in the future is not necessarily bad because it does not fall in with your preconceived ideas of right . Be not hasty in your judgments . There are certain great rules which must be carried out , at whatever cost to individuals . Their operation may appear to you to be harsh and cruel , but that is as nothing compared with the dangerous precedent which would be established by not enforcing them . The ox and the sheep are safe from us , but the man with the blood of the highest upon his hands should not and shall not live . `` He threw up his arms at the last words with a fierce , threatening gesture , and , turning away from me , strode back to the ruined hut.I stood gazing after him until he disappeared through the doorway , and then started off for home , revolving in my mind all that I had heard , and more particularly this last outburst of the occult philosopher.Far on the right I could see the tall , white tower of Cloomber standing out clear-cut and sharp against a dark cloud-bank which rose behind it . I thought how any traveller who chanced to pass that way would envy in his heart the tenant of that magnificent building , and how little they would guess the strange terrors , the nameless dangers , which were gathering about his head . The black cloud-wrack was but the image , I reflected , of the darker , more sombre storm which was about to burst . `` Whatever it all means , and however it happens , '' I ejaculated , `` God grant that the innocent be not confounded with the guilty . `` My father , when I reached home , was still in a ferment over his learned disputation with the stranger . `` I trust , Jack , '' he said , `` that I did not handle him too roughly . I should remember that I amin loco magistri , and be less prone to argue with my guests . Yet , when he took up this most untenable position , I could not refrain from attacking him and hurling him out of it , which indeed I did , though you , who are ignorant of the niceties of the question , may have failed to perceive it . You observed , however , that my reference to King Asoka 's edicts was so conclusive that he at once rose and took his leave . `` `` You held your own bravely , '' I answered , `` but what is your impression of the man now that you have seen him ? `` `` Why , '' said my father , `` he is one of those holy men who , under the various names of Sannasis , Yogis , Sevras , Qualanders , Hakims , and Cufis have devoted their lives to the study of the mysteries of the Buddhist faith . He is , I take it , a theosophist , or worshipper of the God of knowledge , the highest grade of which is the adept . This man and his companions have not attained this high position or they could not have crossed the sea without contamination . It is probable that they are all advanced chelas who hope in time to attain to the supreme honour of adeptship . `` `` But , father , '' interrupted my sister , `` this does not explain why men of such sanctity and attainments should choose to take up their quarters on the shores of a desolate Scotch bay . `` `` Ah , there you get beyond me , '' my father answered . `` I may suggest , however , that it is nobody 's business but their own , so long as they keep the peace and are amenable to the law of the land . `` `` Have you ever heard , '' I asked , `` that these higher priests of whom you speak have powers which are unknown to us ? `` `` Why , Eastern literature is full of it . The Bible is an Eastern book , and is it not full of the record of such powers from cover to cover ? It is unquestionable that they have in