was half mad when you came up with us . However , there 's no good grieving over it . I 've had ups in my life , and I 've had downs , but I 've learned not to cry over spilled milk . `` `` This is a very serious matter , Small , '' said the detective . `` If you had helped justice , instead of thwarting it in this way , you would have had a better chance at your trial. '' '' Justice ! '' snarled the ex-convict . `` A pretty justice ! Whose loot is this , if it is not ours ? Where is the justice that I should give it up to those who have never earned it ? Look how I have earned it ! Twenty long years in that fever-ridden swamp , all day at work under the mangrove-tree , all night chained up in the filthy convict-huts , bitten by mosquitoes , racked with ague , bullied by every cursed black-faced policeman who loved to take it out of a white man . That was how I earned the Agra treasure ; and you talk to me of justice because I can not bear to feel that I have paid this price only that another may enjoy it ! I would rather swing a score of times , or have one of Tonga 's darts in my hide , than live in a convict 's cell and feel that another man is at his ease in a palace with the money that should be mine . '' Small had dropped his mask of stoicism , and all this came out in a wild whirl of words , while his eyes blazed , and the handcuffs clanked together with the impassioned movement of his hands . I could understand , as I saw the fury and the passion of the man , that it was no groundless or unnatural terror which had possessed Major Sholto when he first learned that the injured convict was upon his track . `` You forget that we know nothing of all this , '' said Holmes quietly . `` We have not heard your story , and we can not tell how far justice may originally have been on your side . `` `` Well , sir , you have been very fair-spoken to me , though I can see that I have you to thank that I have these bracelets upon my wrists . Still , I bear no grudge for that . It is all fair and above-board . If you want to hear my story I have no wish to hold it back . What I say to you is God 's truth , every word of it . Thank you ; you can put the glass beside me here , and I 'll put my lips to it if I am dry . `` I am a Worcestershire man myself , -- -born near Pershore . I dare say you would find a heap of Smalls living there now if you were to look . I have often thought of taking a look round there , but the truth is that I was never much of a credit to the family , and I doubt if they would be so very glad to see me . They were all steady , chapel-going folk , small farmers , well known and respected over the country-side , while I was always a bit of a rover . At last , however , when I was about eighteen , I gave them no more trouble , for I got into a mess over a girl , and could only get out of it again by taking the queen 's shilling and joining the 3d Buffs , which was just starting for India . `` I was n't destined to do much soldiering , however . I had just got past the goose-step , and learned to handle my musket , when I was fool enough to go swimming in the Ganges . Luckily for me , my company sergeant , John Holder , was in the water at the same time , and he was one of the finest swimmers in the service . A crocodile took me , just as I was half-way across , and nipped off my right leg as clean as a surgeon could have done it , just above the knee . What with the shock and the loss of blood , I fainted , and should have drowned if Holder had not caught hold of me and paddled for the bank . I was five months in hospital over it , and when at last I was able to limp out of it with this timber toe strapped to my stump I found myself invalided out of the army and unfitted for any active occupation . `` I was , as you can imagine , pretty down on my luck at this time , for I was a useless cripple though not yet in my twentieth year . However , my misfortune soon proved to be a blessing in disguise . A man named Abelwhite , who had come out there as an indigo-planter , wanted an overseer to look after his coolies and keep them up to their work . He happened to be a friend of our colonel 's , who had taken an interest in me since the accident . To make a long story short , the colonel recommended me strongly for the post and , as the work was mostly to be done on horseback , my leg was no great obstacle , for I had enough knee left to keep good grip on the saddle . What I had to do was to ride over the plantation , to keep an eye on the men as they worked , and to report the idlers . The pay was fair , I had comfortable quarters , and altogether I was content to spend the remainder of my life in indigo-planting . Mr. Abelwhite was a kind man , and he would often drop into my little shanty and smoke a pipe with me , for white folk out there feel their hearts warm to each other as they never do here at home . `` Well , I was never in luck 's way long . Suddenly , without a note of warning , the great mutiny broke upon us . One month India lay as still and peaceful , to all appearance , as Surrey or Kent ; the next there were two hundred thousand black devils let loose , and the country was a perfect hell . Of course you know all about it , gentlemen , -- -a deal more than I do , very like , since reading is not in my line . I only know what I saw with my own eyes . Our plantation was at a place called Muttra , near the border of the Northwest Provinces . Night after night the whole sky was alight with the burning bungalows , and day after day we had small companies of Europeans passing through our estate with their wives and children , on their way to Agra , where were the nearest troops . Mr. Abelwhite was an obstinate man . He had it in his head that the affair had been exaggerated , and that it would blow over as suddenly as it had sprung up . There he sat on his veranda , drinking whiskey-pegs and smoking cheroots , while the country was in a blaze about him . Of course we stuck by him , I and Dawson , who , with his wife , used to do the book-work and the managing . Well , one fine day the crash came . I had been away on a distant plantation , and was riding slowly home in the evening , when my eye fell upon something all huddled together at the bottom of a steep nullah . I rode down to see what it was , and the cold struck through my heart when I found it was Dawson 's wife , all cut into ribbons , and half eaten by jackals and native dogs . A little further up the road Dawson himself was lying on his face , quite dead , with an empty revolver in his hand and four Sepoys lying across each other in front of him . I reined up my horse , wondering which way I should turn , but at that moment I saw thick smoke curling up from Abelwhite 's bungalow and the flames beginning to burst through the roof . I knew then that I could do my employer no good , but would only throw my own life away if I meddled in the matter . From where I stood I could see hundreds of the black fiends , with their red coats still on their backs , dancing and howling round the burning house . Some of them pointed at me , and a couple of bullets sang past my head ; so I broke away across the paddy-fields , and found myself late at night safe within the walls at Agra . `` As it proved , however , there was no great safety there , either . The whole country was up like a swarm of bees . Wherever the English could collect in little bands they held just the ground that their guns commanded . Everywhere else they were helpless fugitives . It was a fight of the millions against the hundreds ; and the cruellest part of it was that these men that we fought against , foot , horse , and gunners , were our own picked troops , whom we had taught and trained , handling our own weapons , and blowing our own bugle-calls . At Agra there were the 3d Bengal Fusiliers , some Sikhs , two troops of horse , and a battery of artillery . A volunteer corps of clerks and merchants had been formed , and this I joined , wooden leg and all . We went out to meet the rebels at Shahgunge early in July , and we beat them back for a time , but our powder gave out , and we had to fall back upon the city . Nothing but the worst news came to us from every side , -- -which is not to be wondered at , for if you look at the map you will see that we were right in the heart of it . Lucknow is rather better than a hundred miles to the east , and Cawnpore about as far to the south . From every point on the compass there was nothing but torture and murder and outrage . `` The city of Agra is a great place , swarming with fanatics and fierce devil-worshippers of all sorts . Our handful of men were lost among the narrow , winding streets . Our leader moved across the river , therefore , and took up his position in the old fort at Agra . I do n't know if any of you gentlemen have ever read or heard anything of that old fort . It is a very queer place , -- -the queerest that ever I was in , and I have been in some rum corners , too . First of all , it is enormous in size . I should think that the enclosure must be acres and acres . There is a modern part , which took all our garrison , women , children , stores , and everything else , with plenty of room over . But the modern part is