strange to the cloister-bred youth ; but most interesting of all was the motley circle of guests who sat eating their collops round the blaze . They were a humble group of wayfarers , such as might have been found that night in any inn through the length and breadth of England ; but to him they represented that vague world against which he had been so frequently and so earnestly warned . It did not seem to him from what he could see of it to be such a very wicked place after all.Three or four of the men round the fire were evidently underkeepers and verderers from the forest , sunburned and bearded , with the quick restless eye and lithe movements of the deer among which they lived . Close to the corner of the chimney sat a middle-aged gleeman , clad in a faded garb of Norwich cloth , the tunic of which was so outgrown that it did not fasten at the neck and at the waist . His face was swollen and coarse , and his watery protruding eyes spoke of a life which never wandered very far from the wine-pot . A gilt harp , blotched with many stains and with two of its strings missing , was tucked under one of his arms , while with the other he scooped greedily at his platter . Next to him sat two other men of about the same age , one with a trimming of fur to his coat , which gave him a dignity which was evidently dearer to him than his comfort , for he still drew it round him in spite of the hot glare of the faggots . The other , clad in a dirty russet suit with a long sweeping doublet , had a cunning , foxy face with keen , twinkling eyes and a peaky beard . Next to him sat Hordle John , and beside him three other rough unkempt fellows with tangled beards and matted hair -- -free laborers from the adjoining farms , where small patches of freehold property had been suffered to remain scattered about in the heart of the royal demesne . The company was completed by a peasant in a rude dress of undyed sheepskin , with the old-fashioned galligaskins about his legs , and a gayly dressed young man with striped cloak jagged at the edges and parti-colored hosen , who looked about him with high disdain upon his face , and held a blue smelling-flask to his nose with one hand , while he brandished a busy spoon with the other . In the corner a very fat man was lying all a-sprawl upon a truss , snoring stertorously , and evidently in the last stage of drunkenness . `` That is Wat the limner , '' quoth the landlady , sitting down beside Alleyne , and pointing with the ladle to the sleeping man . `` That is he who paints the signs and the tokens . Alack and alas that ever I should have been fool enough to trust him ! Now , young man , what manner of a bird would you suppose a pied merlin to be -- -that being the proper sign of my hostel ? `` `` Why , '' said Alleyne , `` a merlin is a bird of the same form as an eagle or a falcon . I can well remember that learned brother Bartholomew , who is deep in all the secrets of nature , pointed one out to me as we walked together near Vinney Ridge . `` `` A falcon or an eagle , quotha ? And pied , that is of two several colors . So any man would say except this barrel of lies . He came to me , look you , saying that if I would furnish him with a gallon of ale , wherewith to strengthen himself as he worked , and also the pigments and a board , he would paint for me a noble pied merlin which I might hang along with the blazonry over my door . I , poor simple fool , gave him the ale and all that he craved , leaving him alone too , because he said that a man 's mind must be left untroubled when he had great work to do . When I came back the gallon jar was empty , and he lay as you see him , with the board in front of him with this sorry device . '' She raised up a panel which was leaning against the wall , and showed a rude painting of a scraggy and angular fowl , with very long legs and a spotted body . `` Was that , '' she asked , `` like the bird which thou hast seen ? `` Alleyne shook his head , smiling . `` No , nor any other bird that ever wagged a feather . It is most like a plucked pullet which has died of the spotted fever . And scarlet too ! What would the gentles Sir Nicholas Boarhunte , or Sir Bernard Brocas , of Roche Court , say if they saw such a thing -- -or , perhaps , even the King 's own Majesty himself , who often has ridden past this way , and who loves his falcons as he loves his sons ? It would be the downfall of my house . `` `` The matter is not past mending , '' said Alleyne . `` I pray you , good dame , to give me those three pigment-pots and the brush , and I shall try whether I can not better this painting . `` Dame Eliza looked doubtfully at him , as though fearing some other stratagem , but , as he made no demand for ale , she finally brought the paints , and watched him as he smeared on his background , talking the while about the folk round the fire . `` The four forest lads must be jogging soon , '' she said . `` They bide at Emery Down , a mile or more from here . Yeomen prickers they are , who tend to the King 's hunt . The gleeman is called Floyting Will . He comes from the north country , but for many years he hath gone the round of the forest from Southampton to Christchurch . He drinks much and pays little but it would make your ribs crackle to hear him sing the 'Jest of Hendy Tobias . ' Mayhap he will sing it when the ale has warmed him . `` `` Who are those next to him ? '' asked Alleyne , much interested . `` He of the fur mantle has a wise and reverent face . `` `` He is a seller of pills and salves , very learned in humors , and rheums , and fluxes , and all manner of ailments . He wears , as you perceive , the vernicle of Sainted Luke , the first physician , upon his sleeve . May good St. Thomas of Kent grant that it may be long before either I or mine need his help ! He is here to-night for herbergage , as are the others except the foresters . His neighbor is a tooth-drawer . That bag at his girdle is full of the teeth that he drew at Winchester fair . I warrant that there are more sound ones than sorry , for he is quick at his work and a trifle dim in the eye . The lusty man next him with the red head I have not seen before . The four on this side are all workers , three of them in the service of the bailiff of Sir Baldwin Redvers , and the other , he with the sheepskin , is , as I hear , a villein from the midlands who hath run from his master . His year and day are well-nigh up , when he will be a free man . `` `` And the other ? '' asked Alleyne in a whisper . `` He is surely some very great man , for he looks as though he scorned those who were about him . `` The landlady looked at him in a motherly way and shook her head . `` You have had no great truck with the world , '' she said , `` or you would have learned that it is the small men and not the great who hold their noses in the air . Look at those shields upon my wall and under my eaves . Each of them is the device of some noble lord or gallant knight who hath slept under my roof at one time or another . Yet milder men or easier to please I have never seen : eating my bacon and drinking my wine with a merry face , and paying my score with some courteous word or jest which was dearer to me than my profit . Those are the true gentles . But your chapman or your bearward will swear that there is a lime in the wine , and water in the ale , and fling off at the last with a curse instead of a blessing . This youth is a scholar from Cambrig , where men are wont to be blown out by a little knowledge , and lose the use of their hands in learning the laws of the Romans . But I must away to lay down the beds . So may the saints keep you and prosper you in your undertaking ! `` Thus left to himself , Alleyne drew his panel of wood where the light of one of the torches would strike full upon it , and worked away with all the pleasure of the trained craftsman , listening the while to the talk which went on round the fire . The peasant in the sheepskins , who had sat glum and silent all evening , had been so heated by his flagon of ale that he was talking loudly and angrily with clenched hands and flashing eyes . `` Sir Humphrey Tennant of Ashby may till his own fields for me , '' he cried . `` The castle has thrown its shadow upon the cottage over long . For three hundred years my folk have swinked and sweated , day in and day out , to keep the wine on the lord 's table and the harness on the lord 's back . Let him take off his plates and delve himself , if delving must be done . `` `` A proper spirit , my fair son ! '' said one of the free laborers . `` I would that all men were of thy way of thinking . `` `` He would have sold me with his acres , '' the other cried , in a voice which was hoarse with passion . `` 'The man , the woman and their litter ' -- -so ran the words of the dotard bailiff . Never a bullock on the farm was sold more lightly . Ha ! he may wake some black night to find the flames licking about his ears -- -for fire is a good friend to the poor man , and I have seen a smoking heap of ashes where over night there stood just such another castlewick as Ashby . `` `` This is a lad of mettle ! '' shouted another of the laborers . `` He dares to give tongue to what all men think . Are we not all from Adam 's loins , all with flesh and blood , and with the same mouth that must needs have