therefore , already made up my mind . Abdullah Khan , however , thinking that I hesitated , pressed the matter more closely . `` 'Consider , Sahib , ' said he , 'that if this man is taken by the commandant he will be hung or shot , and his jewels taken by the government , so that no man will be a rupee the better for them . Now , since we do the taking of him , why should we not do the rest as well ? The jewels will be as well with us as in the Company 's coffers . There will be enough to make every one of us rich men and great chiefs . No one can know about the matter , for here we are cut off from all men . What could be better for the purpose ? Say again , then , Sahib , whether you are with us , or if we must look upon you as an enemy . ' '' 'I am with you heart and soul , ' said I . `` 'It is well , ' he answered , handing me back my firelock . 'You see that we trust you , for your word , like ours , is not to be broken . We have now only to wait for my brother and the merchant . ' '' 'Does your brother know , then , of what you will do ? ' I asked . `` 'The plan is his . He has devised it . We will go to the gate and share the watch with Mahomet Singh . ' '' The rain was still falling steadily , for it was just the beginning of the wet season . Brown , heavy clouds were drifting across the sky , and it was hard to see more than a stone-cast . A deep moat lay in front of our door , but the water was in places nearly dried up , and it could easily be crossed . It was strange to me to be standing there with those two wild Punjaubees waiting for the man who was coming to his death . `` Suddenly my eye caught the glint of a shaded lantern at the other side of the moat . It vanished among the mound-heaps , and then appeared again coming slowly in our direction . `` 'Here they are ! ' I exclaimed . `` 'You will challenge him , Sahib , as usual , ' whispered Abdullah . 'Give him no cause for fear . Send us in with him , and we shall do the rest while you stay here on guard . Have the lantern ready to uncover , that we may be sure that it is indeed the man . ' '' The light had flickered onwards , now stopping and now advancing , until I could see two dark figures upon the other side of the moat . I let them scramble down the sloping bank , splash through the mire , and climb half-way up to the gate , before I challenged them . `` 'Who goes there ? ' said I , in a subdued voice . `` 'Friends , ' came the answer . I uncovered my lantern and threw a flood of light upon them . The first was an enormous Sikh , with a black beard which swept nearly down to his cummerbund . Outside of a show I have never seen so tall a man . The other was a little , fat , round fellow , with a great yellow turban , and a bundle in his hand , done up in a shawl . He seemed to be all in a quiver with fear , for his hands twitched as if he had the ague , and his head kept turning to left and right with two bright little twinkling eyes , like a mouse when he ventures out from his hole . It gave me the chills to think of killing him , but I thought of the treasure , and my heart set as hard as a flint within me . When he saw my white face he gave a little chirrup of joy and came running up towards me . `` 'Your protection , Sahib , ' he panted , -- -'your protection for the unhappy merchant Achmet . I have travelled across Rajpootana that I might seek the shelter of the fort at Agra . I have been robbed and beaten and abused because I have been the friend of the Company . It is a blessed night this when I am once more in safety , -- -I and my poor possessions . ' '' 'What have you in the bundle ? ' I asked . `` 'An iron box , ' he answered , 'which contains one or two little family matters which are of no value to others , but which I should be sorry to lose . Yet I am not a beggar ; and I shall reward you , young Sahib , and your governor also , if he will give me the shelter I ask . ' '' I could not trust myself to speak longer with the man . The more I looked at his fat , frightened face , the harder did it seem that we should slay him in cold blood . It was best to get it over . `` 'Take him to the main guard , ' said I . The two Sikhs closed in upon him on each side , and the giant walked behind , while they marched in through the dark gate-way . Never was a man so compassed round with death . I remained at the gate-way with the lantern . `` I could hear the measured tramp of their footsteps sounding through the lonely corridors . Suddenly it ceased , and I heard voices , and a scuffle , with the sound of blows . A moment later there came , to my horror , a rush of footsteps coming in my direction , with the loud breathing of a running man . I turned my lantern down the long , straight passage , and there was the fat man , running like the wind , with a smear of blood across his face , and close at his heels , bounding like a tiger , the great black-bearded Sikh , with a knife flashing in his hand . I have never seen a man run so fast as that little merchant . He was gaining on the Sikh , and I could see that if he once passed me and got to the open air he would save himself yet . My heart softened to him , but again the thought of his treasure turned me hard and bitter . I cast my firelock between his legs as he raced past , and he rolled twice over like a shot rabbit . Ere he could stagger to his feet the Sikh was upon him , and buried his knife twice in his side . The man never uttered moan nor moved muscle , but lay were he had fallen . I think myself that he may have broken his neck with the fall . You see , gentlemen , that I am keeping my promise . I am telling you every work of the business just exactly as it happened , whether it is in my favor or not . `` He stopped , and held out his manacled hands for the whiskey-and-water which Holmes had brewed for him . For myself , I confess that I had now conceived the utmost horror of the man , not only for this cold-blooded business in which he had been concerned , but even more for the somewhat flippant and careless way in which he narrated it . Whatever punishment was in store for him , I felt that he might expect no sympathy from me . Sherlock Holmes and Jones sat with their hands upon their knees , deeply interested in the story , but with the same disgust written upon their faces . He may have observed it , for there was a touch of defiance in his voice and manner as he proceeded . `` It was all very bad , no doubt , '' said he . `` I should like to know how many fellows in my shoes would have refused a share of this loot when they knew that they would have their throats cut for their pains . Besides , it was my life or his when once he was in the fort . If he had got out , the whole business would come to light , and I should have been court-martialled and shot as likely as not ; for people were not very lenient at a time like that . `` `` Go on with your story , '' said Holmes , shortly . `` Well , we carried him in , Abdullah , Akbar , and I . A fine weight he was , too , for all that he was so short . Mahomet Singh was left to guard the door . We took him to a place which the Sikhs had already prepared . It was some distance off , where a winding passage leads to a great empty hall , the brick walls of which were all crumbling to pieces . The earth floor had sunk in at one place , making a natural grave , so we left Achmet the merchant there , having first covered him over with loose bricks . This done , we all went back to the treasure . `` It lay where he had dropped it when he was first attacked . The box was the same which now lies open upon your table . A key was hung by a silken cord to that carved handle upon the top . We opened it , and the light of the lantern gleamed upon a collection of gems such as I have read of and thought about when I was a little lad at Pershore . It was blinding to look upon them . When we had feasted our eyes we took them all out and made a list of them . There were one hundred and forty-three diamonds of the first water , including one which has been called , I believe , 'the Great Mogul ' and is said to be the second largest stone in existence . Then there were ninety-seven very fine emeralds , and one hundred and seventy rubies , some of which , however , were small . There were forty carbuncles , two hundred and ten sapphires , sixty-one agates , and a great quantity of beryls , onyxes , cats'-eyes , turquoises , and other stones , the very names of which I did not know at the time , though I have become more familiar with them since . Besides this , there were nearly three hundred very fine pearls , twelve of which were set in a gold coronet . By the way , these last had been taken out of the chest and were not there when I recovered it . `` After we had counted our treasures we put them back into the chest and carried them to the gate-way to show them to Mahomet Singh . Then we solemnly renewed our oath to stand by each other and be true to our secret . We agreed to conceal our loot in a safe place until the country should be at peace again , and then to divide it equally among ourselves . There was no use dividing it at present , for if gems of such