her so . No , I believe I am free from her love -- -but how about her hate ? Might she not use these powers of hers for revenge ? Tut ! why should I frighten myself over shadows ? She will forget about me , and I shall forget about her , and all will be well.April 13 . My nerves have quite recovered their tone . I really believe that I have conquered the creature . But I must confess to living in some suspense . She is well again , for I hear that she was driving with Mrs. Wilson in the High Street in the afternoon.April 14 . I do wish I could get away from the place altogether . I shall fly to Agatha 's side the very day that the term closes . I suppose it is pitiably weak of me , but this woman gets upon my nerves most terribly . I have seen her again , and I have spoken with her.It was just after lunch , and I was smoking a cigarette in my study , when I heard the step of my servant Murray in the passage . I was languidly conscious that a second step was audible behind , and had hardly troubled myself to speculate who it might be , when suddenly a slight noise brought me out of my chair with my skin creeping with apprehension . I had never particularly observed before what sort of sound the tapping of a crutch was , but my quivering nerves told me that I heard it now in the sharp wooden clack which alternated with the muffled thud of the foot fall . Another instant and my servant had shown her in.I did not attempt the usual conventions of society , nor did she . I simply stood with the smouldering cigarette in my hand , and gazed at her . She in her turn looked silently at me , and at her look I remembered how in these very pages I had tried to define the expression of her eyes , whether they were furtive or fierce . To-day they were fierce -- -coldly and inexorably so . `` Well , '' said she at last , `` are you still of the same mind as when I saw you last ? `` `` I have always been of the same mind . `` `` Let us understand each other , Professor Gilroy , '' said she slowly . `` I am not a very safe person to trifle with , as you should realize by now . It was you who asked me to enter into a series of experiments with you , it was you who won my affections , it was you who professed your love for me , it was you who brought me your own photograph with words of affection upon it , and , finally , it was you who on the very same evening thought fit to insult me most outrageously , addressing me as no man has ever dared to speak to me yet . Tell me that those words came from you in a moment of passion and I am prepared to forget and to forgive them . You did not mean what you said , Austin ? You do not really hate me ? `` I might have pitied this deformed woman -- -such a longing for love broke suddenly through the menace of her eyes . But then I thought of what I had gone through , and my heart set like flint . `` If ever you heard me speak of love , '' said I , `` you know very well that it was your voice which spoke , and not mine . The only words of truth which I have ever been able to say to you are those which you heard when last we met . `` `` I know . Some one has set you against me . It was he ! '' She tapped with her crutch upon the floor . `` Well , you know very well that I could bring you this instant crouching like a spaniel to my feet . You will not find me again in my hour of weakness , when you can insult me with impunity . Have a care what you are doing , Professor Gilroy . You stand in a terrible position . You have not yet realized the hold which I have upon you . `` I shrugged my shoulders and turned away . `` Well , '' said she , after a pause , `` if you despise my love , I must see what can be done with fear . You smile , but the day will come when you will come screaming to me for pardon . Yes , you will grovel on the ground before me , proud as you are , and you will curse the day that ever you turned me from your best friend into your most bitter enemy . Have a care , Professor Gilroy ! '' I saw a white hand shaking in the air , and a face which was scarcely human , so convulsed was it with passion . An instant later she was gone , and I heard the quick hobble and tap receding down the passage.But she has left a weight upon my heart . Vague presentiments of coming misfortune lie heavy upon me . I try in vain to persuade myself that these are only words of empty anger . I can remember those relentless eyes too clearly to think so . What shall I do -- -ah , what shall I do ? I am no longer master of my own soul . At any moment this loathsome parasite may creep into me , and then -- -- -- I must tell some one my hideous secret -- -I must tell it or go mad . If I had some one to sympathize and advise ! Wilson is out of the question . Charles Sadler would understand me only so far as his own experience carries him . Pratt-Haldane ! He is a well-balanced man , a man of great common-sense and resource . I will go to him . I will tell him every thing . God grant that he may be able to advise me ! 6.45 P. M. No , it is useless . There is no human help for me ; I must fight this out single-handed . Two courses lie before me . I might become this woman 's lover . Or I must endure such persecutions as she can inflict upon me . Even if none come , I shall live in a hell of apprehension . But she may torture me , she may drive me mad , she may kill me : I will never , never , never give in . What can she inflict which would be worse than the loss of Agatha , and the knowledge that I am a perjured liar , and have forfeited the name of gentleman ? Pratt-Haldane was most amiable , and listened with all politeness to my story . But when I looked at his heavy set features , his slow eyes , and the ponderous study furniture which surrounded him , I could hardly tell him what I had come to say . It was all so substantial , so material . And , besides , what would I myself have said a short month ago if one of my colleagues had come to me with a story of demonic possession ? Perhaps . I should have been less patient than he was . As it was , he took notes of my statement , asked me how much tea I drank , how many hours I slept , whether I had been overworking much , had I had sudden pains in the head , evil dreams , singing in the ears , flashes before the eyes -- -all questions which pointed to his belief that brain congestion was at the bottom of my trouble . Finally he dismissed me with a great many platitudes about open-air exercise , and avoidance of nervous excitement . His prescription , which was for chloral and bromide , I rolled up and threw into the gutter.No , I can look for no help from any human being . If I consult any more , they may put their heads together and I may find myself in an asylum . I can but grip my courage with both hands , and pray that an honest man may not be abandoned.April 10 . It is the sweetest spring within the memory of man . So green , so mild , so beautiful ! Ah , what a contrast between nature without and my own soul so torn with doubt and terror ! It has been an uneventful day , but I know that I am on the edge of an abyss . I know it , and yet I go on with the routine of my life . The one bright spot is that Agatha is happy and well and out of all danger . If this creature had a hand on each of us , what might she not do ? April 16 . The woman is ingenious in her torments . She knows how fond I am of my work , and how highly my lectures are thought of . So it is from that point that she now attacks me . It will end , I can see , in my losing my professorship , but I will fight to the finish . She shall not drive me out of it without a struggle.I was not conscious of any change during my lecture this morning save that for a minute or two I had a dizziness and swimminess which rapidly passed away . On the contrary , I congratulated myself upon having made my subject ( the functions of the red corpuscles ) both interesting and clear . I was surprised , therefore , when a student came into my laboratory immediately after the lecture , and complained of being puzzled by the discrepancy between my statements and those in the text books . He showed me his note-book , in which I was reported as having in one portion of the lecture championed the most outrageous and unscientific heresies . Of course I denied it , and declared that he had misunderstood me , but on comparing his notes with those of his companions , it became clear that he was right , and that I really had made some most preposterous statements . Of course I shall explain it away as being the result of a moment of aberration , but I feel only too sure that it will be the first of a series . It is but a month now to the end of the session , and I pray that I may be able to hold out until then.April 26 . Ten days have elapsed since I have had the heart to make any entry in my journal . Why should I record my own humiliation and degradation ? I had vowed never to open it again . And yet the force of habit is strong , and here I find myself taking up once more the record of my own dreadful experiences -- -in much the same spirit in which a suicide has been known to take notes of the effects of the poison which killed him.Well , the crash which I had foreseen has come -- -and that no further back than yesterday . The university authorities have taken my lectureship from me . It has been done in the most delicate way