come to that portion of his life which has proved to be of such intense interest to us . The fellow had evidently made inquiry and found that only two lives intervened between him and a valuable estate . When he went to Devonshire his plans were , I believe , exceedingly hazy , but that he meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which he took his wife with him in the character of his sister . The idea of using her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind , though he may not have been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged . He meant in the end to have the estate , and he was ready to use any tool or run any risk for that end . His first act was to establish himself as near to his ancestral home as he could , and his second was to cultivate a friendship with Sir Charles Baskerville and with the neighbours . `` The baronet himself told him about the family hound , and so prepared the way for his own death . Stapleton , as I will continue to call him , knew that the old man 's heart was weak and that a shock would kill him . So much he had learned from Dr. Mortimer . He had heard also that Sir Charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very seriously . His ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the baronet could be done to death , and yet it would be hardly possible to bring home the guilt to the real murderer . `` Having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with considerable finesse . An ordinary schemer would have been content to work with a savage hound . The use of artificial means to make the creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part . The dog he bought in London from Ross and Mangles , the dealers in Fulham Road . It was the strongest and most savage in their possession . He brought it down by the North Devon line and walked a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without exciting any remarks . He had already on his insect hunts learned to penetrate the Grimpen Mire , and so had found a safe hiding-place for the creature . Here he kennelled it and waited his chance . `` But it was some time coming . The old gentleman could not be decoyed outside of his grounds at night . Several times Stapleton lurked about with his hound , but without avail . It was during these fruitless quests that he , or rather his ally , was seen by peasants , and that the legend of the demon dog received a new confirmation . He had hoped that his wife might lure Sir Charles to his ruin , but here she proved unexpectedly independent . She would not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy . Threats and even , I am sorry to say , blows refused to move her . She would have nothing to do with it , and for a time Stapleton was at a deadlock . `` He found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that Sir Charles , who had conceived a friendship for him , made him the minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman , Mrs. Laura Lyons . By representing himself as a single man he acquired complete influence over her , and he gave her to understand that in the event of her obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her . His plans were suddenly brought to a head by his knowledge that Sir Charles was about to leave the Hall on the advice of Dr. Mortimer , with whose opinion he himself pretended to coincide . He must act at once , or his victim might get beyond his power . He therefore put pressure upon Mrs. Lyons to write this letter , imploring the old man to give her an interview on the evening before his departure for London . He then , by a specious argument , prevented her from going , and so had the chance for which he had waited . `` Driving back in the evening from Coombe Tracey he was in time to get his hound , to treat it with his infernal paint , and to bring the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that he would find the old gentleman waiting . The dog , incited by its master , sprang over the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate baronet , who fled screaming down the yew alley . In that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge black creature , with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes , bounding after its victim . He fell dead at the end of the alley from heart disease and terror . The hound had kept upon the grassy border while the baronet had run down the path , so that no track but the man 's was visible . On seeing him lying still the creature had probably approached to sniff at him , but finding him dead had turned away again . It was then that it left the print which was actually observed by Dr. Mortimer . The hound was called off and hurried away to its lair in the Grimpen Mire , and a mystery was left which puzzled the authorities , alarmed the countryside , and finally brought the case within the scope of our observation . `` So much for the death of Sir Charles Baskerville . You perceive the devilish cunning of it , for really it would be almost impossible to make a case against the real murderer . His only accomplice was one who could never give him away , and the grotesque , inconceivable nature of the device only served to make it more effective . Both of the women concerned in the case , Mrs. Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons , were left with a strong suspicion against Stapleton . Mrs. Stapleton knew that he had designs upon the old man , and also of the existence of the hound . Mrs. Lyons knew neither of these things , but had been impressed by the death occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was only known to him . However , both of them were under his influence , and he had nothing to fear from them . The first half of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult still remained . `` It is possible that Stapleton did not know of the existence of an heir in Canada . In any case he would very soon learn it from his friend Dr. Mortimer , and he was told by the latter all details about the arrival of Henry Baskerville . Stapleton 's first idea was that this young stranger from Canada might possibly be done to death in London without coming down to Devonshire at all . He distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in laying a trap for the old man , and he dared not leave her long out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her . It was for this reason that he took her to London with him . They lodged , I find , at the Mexborough Private Hotel , in Craven Street , which was actually one of those called upon by my agent in search of evidence . Here he kept his wife imprisoned in her room while he , disguised in a beard , followed Dr. Mortimer to Baker Street and afterwards to the station and to the Northumberland Hotel . His wife had some inkling of his plans ; but she had such a fear of her husband -- -a fear founded upon brutal ill-treatment -- -that she dare not write to warn the man whom she knew to be in danger . If the letter should fall into Stapleton 's hands her own life would not be safe . Eventually , as we know , she adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form the message , and addressing the letter in a disguised hand . It reached the baronet , and gave him the first warning of his danger . `` It was very essential for Stapleton to get some article of Sir Henry 's attire so that , in case he was driven to use the dog , he might always have the means of setting him upon his track . With characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once , and we can not doubt that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him in his design . By chance , however , the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and , therefore , useless for his purpose . He then had it returned and obtained another -- -a most instructive incident , since it proved conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound , as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one . The more outre and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be examined , and the very point which appears to complicate a case is , when duly considered and scientifically handled , the one which is most likely to elucidate it . `` Then we had the visit from our friends next morning , shadowed always by Stapleton in the cab . From his knowledge of our rooms and of my appearance , as well as from his general conduct , I am inclined to think that Stapleton 's career of crime has been by no means limited to this single Baskerville affair . It is suggestive that during the last three years there have been four considerable burglaries in the west country , for none of which was any criminal ever arrested . The last of these , at Folkestone Court , in May , was remarkable for the cold-blooded pistolling of the page , who surprised the masked and solitary burglar . I can not doubt that Stapleton recruited his waning resources in this fashion , and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous man . `` We had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when he got away from us so successfully , and also of his audacity in sending back my own name to me through the cabman . From that moment he understood that I had taken over the case in London , and that therefore there was no chance for him there . He returned to Dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet . `` `` One moment ! '' said I . `` You have , no doubt , described the sequence of events correctly , but there is one point which you have left unexplained . What became of the hound when its master was in London ? `` `` I have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly of importance . There can be no question that Stapleton had a confidant , though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his power by sharing all his plans with him . There was an old manservant at Merripit House , whose name was Anthony . His connection with