`` `` And be ready to get the toe-end of the editorial boot in return , '' said Lord John . `` Things look a bit different from the latitude of London , young fellah my lad . There 's many a man who never tells his adventures , for he ca n't hope to be believed . Who 's to blame them ? For this will seem a bit of a dream to ourselves in a month or two . WHAT did you say they were ? `` `` Iguanodons , '' said Summerlee . `` You 'll find their footmarks all over the Hastings sands , in Kent , and in Sussex . The South of England was alive with them when there was plenty of good lush green-stuff to keep them going . Conditions have changed , and the beasts died . Here it seems that the conditions have not changed , and the beasts have lived . `` `` If ever we get out of this alive , I must have a head with me , '' said Lord John . `` Lord , how some of that Somaliland-Uganda crowd would turn a beautiful pea-green if they saw it ! I do n't know what you chaps think , but it strikes me that we are on mighty thin ice all this time . `` I had the same feeling of mystery and danger around us . In the gloom of the trees there seemed a constant menace and as we looked up into their shadowy foliage vague terrors crept into one 's heart . It is true that these monstrous creatures which we had seen were lumbering , inoffensive brutes which were unlikely to hurt anyone , but in this world of wonders what other survivals might there not be -- -what fierce , active horrors ready to pounce upon us from their lair among the rocks or brushwood ? I knew little of prehistoric life , but I had a clear remembrance of one book which I had read in which it spoke of creatures who would live upon our lions and tigers as a cat lives upon mice . What if these also were to be found in the woods of Maple White Land ! It was destined that on this very morning -- -our first in the new country -- -we were to find out what strange hazards lay around us . It was a loathsome adventure , and one of which I hate to think . If , as Lord John said , the glade of the iguanodons will remain with us as a dream , then surely the swamp of the pterodactyls will forever be our nightmare . Let me set down exactly what occurred.We passed very slowly through the woods , partly because Lord Roxton acted as scout before he would let us advance , and partly because at every second step one or other of our professors would fall , with a cry of wonder , before some flower or insect which presented him with a new type . We may have traveled two or three miles in all , keeping to the right of the line of the stream , when we came upon a considerable opening in the trees . A belt of brushwood led up to a tangle of rocks -- -the whole plateau was strewn with boulders . We were walking slowly towards these rocks , among bushes which reached over our waists , when we became aware of a strange low gabbling and whistling sound , which filled the air with a constant clamor and appeared to come from some spot immediately before us . Lord John held up his hand as a signal for us to stop , and he made his way swiftly , stooping and running , to the line of rocks . We saw him peep over them and give a gesture of amazement . Then he stood staring as if forgetting us , so utterly entranced was he by what he saw . Finally he waved us to come on , holding up his hand as a signal for caution . His whole bearing made me feel that something wonderful but dangerous lay before us.Creeping to his side , we looked over the rocks . The place into which we gazed was a pit , and may , in the early days , have been one of the smaller volcanic blow-holes of the plateau . It was bowl-shaped and at the bottom , some hundreds of yards from where we lay , were pools of green-scummed , stagnant water , fringed with bullrushes . It was a weird place in itself , but its occupants made it seem like a scene from the Seven Circles of Dante . The place was a rookery of pterodactyls . There were hundreds of them congregated within view . All the bottom area round the water-edge was alive with their young ones , and with hideous mothers brooding upon their leathery , yellowish eggs . From this crawling flapping mass of obscene reptilian life came the shocking clamor which filled the air and the mephitic , horrible , musty odor which turned us sick . But above , perched each upon its own stone , tall , gray , and withered , more like dead and dried specimens than actual living creatures , sat the horrible males , absolutely motionless save for the rolling of their red eyes or an occasional snap of their rat-trap beaks as a dragon-fly went past them . Their huge , membranous wings were closed by folding their fore-arms , so that they sat like gigantic old women , wrapped in hideous web-colored shawls , and with their ferocious heads protruding above them . Large and small , not less than a thousand of these filthy creatures lay in the hollow before us.Our professors would gladly have stayed there all day , so entranced were they by this opportunity of studying the life of a prehistoric age . They pointed out the fish and dead birds lying about among the rocks as proving the nature of the food of these creatures , and I heard them congratulating each other on having cleared up the point why the bones of this flying dragon are found in such great numbers in certain well-defined areas , as in the Cambridge Green-sand , since it was now seen that , like penguins , they lived in gregarious fashion.Finally , however , Challenger , bent upon proving some point which Summerlee had contested , thrust his head over the rock and nearly brought destruction upon us all . In an instant the nearest male gave a shrill , whistling cry , and flapped its twenty-foot span of leathery wings as it soared up into the air . The females and young ones huddled together beside the water , while the whole circle of sentinels rose one after the other and sailed off into the sky . It was a wonderful sight to see at least a hundred creatures of such enormous size and hideous appearance all swooping like swallows with swift , shearing wing-strokes above us ; but soon we realized that it was not one on which we could afford to linger . At first the great brutes flew round in a huge ring , as if to make sure what the exact extent of the danger might be . Then , the flight grew lower and the circle narrower , until they were whizzing round and round us , the dry , rustling flap of their huge slate-colored wings filling the air with a volume of sound that made me think of Hendon aerodrome upon a race day . `` Make for the wood and keep together , '' cried Lord John , clubbing his rifle . `` The brutes mean mischief . `` The moment we attempted to retreat the circle closed in upon us , until the tips of the wings of those nearest to us nearly touched our faces . We beat at them with the stocks of our guns , but there was nothing solid or vulnerable to strike . Then suddenly out of the whizzing , slate-colored circle a long neck shot out , and a fierce beak made a thrust at us . Another and another followed . Summerlee gave a cry and put his hand to his face , from which the blood was streaming . I felt a prod at the back of my neck , and turned dizzy with the shock . Challenger fell , and as I stooped to pick him up I was again struck from behind and dropped on the top of him . At the same instant I heard the crash of Lord John 's elephant-gun , and , looking up , saw one of the creatures with a broken wing struggling upon the ground , spitting and gurgling at us with a wide-opened beak and blood-shot , goggled eyes , like some devil in a medieval picture . Its comrades had flown higher at the sudden sound , and were circling above our heads . `` Now , '' cried Lord John , `` now for our lives ! `` We staggered through the brushwood , and even as we reached the trees the harpies were on us again . Summerlee was knocked down , but we tore him up and rushed among the trunks . Once there we were safe , for those huge wings had no space for their sweep beneath the branches . As we limped homewards , sadly mauled and discomfited , we saw them for a long time flying at a great height against the deep blue sky above our heads , soaring round and round , no bigger than wood-pigeons , with their eyes no doubt still following our progress . At last , however , as we reached the thicker woods they gave up the chase , and we saw them no more . `` A most interesting and convincing experience , '' said Challenger , as we halted beside the brook and he bathed a swollen knee . `` We are exceptionally well informed , Summerlee , as to the habits of the enraged pterodactyl . `` Summerlee was wiping the blood from a cut in his forehead , while I was tying up a nasty stab in the muscle of the neck . Lord John had the shoulder of his coat torn away , but the creature 's teeth had only grazed the flesh . `` It is worth noting , '' Challenger continued , `` that our young friend has received an undoubted stab , while Lord John 's coat could only have been torn by a bite . In my own case , I was beaten about the head by their wings , so we have had a remarkable exhibition of their various methods of offence . `` `` It has been touch and go for our lives , '' said Lord John , gravely , `` and I could not think of a more rotten sort of death than to be outed by such filthy vermin . I was sorry to fire my rifle , but , by Jove ! there was no great choice . `` `` We should not be here if you had n't , '' said I , with conviction . `` It may do no harm , '' said he . `` Among these woods there must be many loud cracks from splitting or falling trees which would be just like the sound of a gun . But now , if you are of my opinion , we have had thrills enough for one day , and had best get back to the surgical box at the camp for