the Agra treasure . But send her nothing -- -not even the chaplet -- -until I am gone . After all , men have been as bad as this and have recovered . `` 'I will tell you how Morstan died , ' he continued . 'He had suffered for years from a weak heart , but he concealed it from every one . I alone knew it . When in India , he and I , through a remarkable chain of circumstances , came into possession of a considerable treasure . I brought it over to England , and on the night of Morstan 's arrival he came straight over here to claim his share . He walked over from the station , and was admitted by my faithful Lal Chowdar , who is now dead . Morstan and I had a difference of opinion as to the division of the treasure , and we came to heated words . Morstan had sprung out of his chair in a paroxysm of anger , when he suddenly pressed his hand to his side , his face turned a dusky hue , and he fell backwards , cutting his head against the corner of the treasure-chest . When I stooped over him I found , to my horror , that he was dead . `` 'For a long time I sat half distracted , wondering what I should do . My first impulse was , of course , to call for assistance ; but I could not but recognize that there was every chance that I would be accused of his murder . His death at the moment of a quarrel , and the gash in his head , would be black against me . Again , an official inquiry could not be made without bringing out some facts about the treasure , which I was particularly anxious to keep secret . He had told me that no soul upon earth knew where he had gone . There seemed to be no necessity why any soul ever should know . `` 'I was still pondering over the matter , when , looking up , I saw my servant , Lal Chowdar , in the doorway . He stole in and bolted the door behind him . `` Do not fear , Sahib , '' he said . `` No one need know that you have killed him . Let us hide him away , and who is the wiser ? '' `` I did not kill him , '' said I. Lal Chowdar shook his head and smiled . `` I heard it all , Sahib , '' said he . `` I heard you quarrel , and I heard the blow . But my lips are sealed . All are asleep in the house . Let us put him away together . '' That was enough to decide me . If my own servant could not believe my innocence , how could I hope to make it good before twelve foolish tradesmen in a jury-box ? Lal Chowdar and I disposed of the body that night , and within a few days the London papers were full of the mysterious disappearance of Captain Morstan . You will see from what I say that I can hardly be blamed in the matter . My fault lies in the fact that we concealed not only the body , but also the treasure , and that I have clung to Morstan 's share as well as to my own . I wish you , therefore , to make restitution . Put your ears down to my mouth . The treasure is hidden in -- - ' At this instant a horrible change came over his expression ; his eyes stared wildly , his jaw dropped , and he yelled , in a voice which I can never forget , 'Keep him out ! For Christ 's sake keep him out ! ' We both stared round at the window behind us upon which his gaze was fixed . A face was looking in at us out of the darkness . We could see the whitening of the nose where it was pressed against the glass . It was a bearded , hairy face , with wild cruel eyes and an expression of concentrated malevolence . My brother and I rushed towards the window , but the man was gone . When we returned to my father his head had dropped and his pulse had ceased to beat . `` We searched the garden that night , but found no sign of the intruder , save that just under the window a single footmark was visible in the flower-bed . But for that one trace , we might have thought that our imaginations had conjured up that wild , fierce face . We soon , however , had another and a more striking proof that there were secret agencies at work all round us . The window of my father 's room was found open in the morning , his cupboards and boxes had been rifled , and upon his chest was fixed a torn piece of paper , with the words 'The sign of the four ' scrawled across it . What the phrase meant , or who our secret visitor may have been , we never knew . As far as we can judge , none of my father 's property had been actually stolen , though everything had been turned out . My brother and I naturally associated this peculiar incident with the fear which haunted my father during his life ; but it is still a complete mystery to us . `` The little man stopped to relight his hookah and puffed thoughtfully for a few moments . We had all sat absorbed , listening to his extraordinary narrative . At the short account of her father 's death Miss Morstan had turned deadly white , and for a moment I feared that she was about to faint . She rallied however , on drinking a glass of water which I quietly poured out for her from a Venetian carafe upon the side-table . Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair with an abstracted expression and the lids drawn low over his glittering eyes . As I glanced at him I could not but think how on that very day he had complained bitterly of the commonplaceness of life . Here at least was a problem which would tax his sagacity to the utmost . Mr. Thaddeus Sholto looked from one to the other of us with an obvious pride at the effect which his story had produced , and then continued between the puffs of his overgrown pipe . `` My brother and I , '' said he , `` were , as you may imagine , much excited as to the treasure which my father had spoken of . For weeks and for months we dug and delved in every part of the garden , without discovering its whereabouts . It was maddening to think that the hiding-place was on his very lips at the moment that he died . We could judge the splendor of the missing riches by the chaplet which he had taken out . Over this chaplet my brother Bartholomew and I had some little discussion . The pearls were evidently of great value , and he was averse to part with them , for , between friends , my brother was himself a little inclined to my father 's fault . He thought , too , that if we parted with the chaplet it might give rise to gossip and finally bring us into trouble . It was all that I could do to persuade him to let me find out Miss Morstan 's address and send her a detached pearl at fixed intervals , so that at least she might never feel destitute . `` `` It was a kindly thought , '' said our companion , earnestly . `` It was extremely good of you . `` The little man waved his hand deprecatingly . `` We were your trustees , '' he said . `` That was the view which I took of it , though Brother Bartholomew could not altogether see it in that light . We had plenty of money ourselves . I desired no more . Besides , it would have been such bad taste to have treated a young lady in so scurvy a fashion . 'Le mauvais gout mene au crime . ' The French have a very neat way of putting these things . Our difference of opinion on this subject went so far that I thought it best to set up rooms for myself : so I left Pondicherry Lodge , taking the old khitmutgar and Williams with me . Yesterday , however , I learn that an event of extreme importance has occurred . The treasure has been discovered . I instantly communicated with Miss Morstan , and it only remains for us to drive out to Norwood and demand our share . I explained my views last night to Brother Bartholomew : so we shall be expected , if not welcome , visitors. '' Mr . Thaddeus Sholto ceased , and sat twitching on his luxurious settee . We all remained silent , with our thoughts upon the new development which the mysterious business had taken . Holmes was the first to spring to his feet . `` You have done well , sir , from first to last , '' said he . `` It is possible that we may be able to make you some small return by throwing some light upon that which is still dark to you . But , as Miss Morstan remarked just now , it is late , and we had best put the matter through without delay . `` Our new acquaintance very deliberately coiled up the tube of his hookah , and produced from behind a curtain a very long befrogged topcoat with Astrakhan collar and cuffs . This he buttoned tightly up , in spite of the extreme closeness of the night , and finished his attire by putting on a rabbit-skin cap with hanging lappets which covered the ears , so that no part of him was visible save his mobile and peaky face . `` My health is somewhat fragile , '' he remarked , as he led the way down the passage . `` I am compelled to be a valetudinarian . `` Our cab was awaiting us outside , and our programme was evidently prearranged , for the driver started off at once at a rapid pace . Thaddeus Sholto talked incessantly , in a voice which rose high above the rattle of the wheels . `` Bartholomew is a clever fellow , '' said he . `` How do you think he found out where the treasure was ? He had come to the conclusion that it was somewhere indoors : so he worked out all the cubic space of the house , and made measurements everywhere , so that not one inch should be unaccounted for . Among other things , he found that the height of the building was seventy-four feet , but on adding together the heights of all the separate rooms , and making every allowance for the space between , which he ascertained by borings , he could not bring the total to more than seventy feet . There were four feet unaccounted for . These could only be at the top of the building . He knocked a hole , therefore , in the lath-and-plaster ceiling of the highest room , and there , sure enough , he came upon another little garret above it , which had been sealed