and of Aragon . If you will take my rede you will come to a composition with them , for they will give you such terms as you have given me . `` `` Nay , by Saint Paul ! it were pity if so many brave men were drawn together , and no little deed of arms to come of it . Ha ! William , they advance upon us ; and , by my soul ! it is a sight that is worth coming over the seas to see . `` As he spoke , the two wings of the Spanish host , consisting of the Knights of Calatrava on the one side and of Santiago upon the other , came swooping swiftly down the valley , while the main body followed more slowly behind . Five hundred paces from the English the two great bodies of horse crossed each other , and , sweeping round in a curve , retired in feigned confusion towards their centre . Often in bygone wars had the Moors tempted the hot-blooded Spaniards from their places of strength by such pretended flights , but there were men upon the hill to whom every ruse and trick of war were as their daily trade and practice . Again and even nearer came the rallying Spaniards , and again with cry of fear and stooping bodies they swerved off to right and left , but the English still stood stolid and observant among their rocks . The vanguard halted a long bow shot from the hill , and with waving spears and vaunting shouts challenged their enemies to come forth , while two cavaliers , pricking forward from the glittering ranks , walked their horses slowly between the two arrays with targets braced and lances in rest like the challengers in a tourney . `` By Saint Paul ! '' cried Sir Nigel , with his one eye glowing like an ember , `` these appear to be two very worthy and debonair gentlemen . I do not call to mind when I have seen any people who seemed of so great a heart and so high of enterprise . We have our horses , Sir William : shall we not relieve them of any vow which they may have upon their souls ? `` Felton 's reply was to bound upon his charger , and to urge it down the slope , while Sir Nigel followed not three spears'-lengths behind him . It was a rugged course , rocky and uneven , yet the two knights , choosing their men , dashed onwards at the top of their speed , while the gallant Spaniards flew as swiftly to meet them . The one to whom Felton found himself opposed was a tall stripling with a stag 's head upon his shield , while Sir Nigel 's man was broad and squat with plain steel harness , and a pink and white torse bound round his helmet . The first struck Felton on the target with such force as to split it from side to side , but Sir William 's lance crashed through the camail which shielded the Spaniard 's throat , and he fell , screaming hoarsely , to the ground . Carried away by the heat and madness of fight , the English knight never drew rein , but charged straight on into the array of the knights of Calatrava . Long time the silent ranks upon the hill could see a swirl and eddy deep down in the heart of the Spanish column , with a circle of rearing chargers and flashing blades . Here and there tossed the white plume of the English helmet , rising and falling like the foam upon a wave , with the fierce gleam and sparkle ever circling round it until at last it had sunk from view , and another brave man had turned from war to peace.Sir Nigel , meanwhile , had found a foeman worthy of his steel for his opponent was none other than Sebastian Gomez , the picked lance of the monkish Knights of Santiago , who had won fame in a hundred bloody combats with the Moors of Andalusia . So fierce was their meeting that their spears shivered up to the very grasp , and the horses reared backwards until it seemed that they must crash down upon their riders . Yet with consummate horsemanship they both swung round in a long curvet , and then plucking out their swords they lashed at each other like two lusty smiths hammering upon an anvil . The chargers spun round each other , biting and striking , while the two blades wheeled and whizzed and circled in gleams of dazzling light . Cut , parry , and thrust followed so swiftly upon each other that the eye could not follow them , until at last coming thigh to thigh , they cast their arms around each other and rolled off their saddles to the ground . The heavier Spaniard threw himself upon his enemy , and pinning him down beneath him raised his sword to slay him , while a shout of triumph rose from the ranks of his countrymen . But the fatal blow never fell , for even as his arm quivered before descending , the Spaniard gave a shudder , and stiffening himself rolled heavily over upon his side , with the blood gushing from his armpit and from the slit of his vizor . Sir Nigel sprang to his feet with his bloody dagger in his left hand and gazed down upon his adversary , but that fatal and sudden stab in the vital spot , which the Spaniard had exposed by raising his arm , had proved instantly mortal . The Englishman leaped upon his horse and made for the hill , at the very instant that a yell of rage from a thousand voices and the clang of a score of bugles announced the Spanish onset.But the islanders were ready and eager for the encounter . With feet firmly planted , their sleeves rolled back to give free play to their muscles , their long yellow bow-staves in their left hands , and their quivers slung to the front , they had waited in the four-deep harrow formation which gave strength to their array , and yet permitted every man to draw his arrow freely without harm to those in front . Aylward and Johnston had been engaged in throwing light tufts of grass into the air to gauge the wind force , and a hoarse whisper passed down the ranks from the file-leaders to the men , with scraps of advice and admonition . `` Do not shoot outside the fifteen-score paces , '' cried Johnston . `` We may need all our shafts ere we have done with them . `` `` Better to overshoot than to undershoot , '' added Aylward . `` Better to strike the rear guard than to feather a shaft in the earth . `` `` Loose quick and sharp when they come , '' added another . `` Let it be the eye to the string , the string to the shaft , and the shaft to the mark . By Our Lady ! their banners advance , and we must hold our ground now if ever we are to see Southampton Water again . `` Alleyne , standing with his sword drawn amidst the archers , saw a long toss and heave of the glittering squadrons . Then the front ranks began to surge slowly forward , to trot , to canter , to gallop , and in an instant the whole vast array was hurtling onward , line after line , the air full of the thunder of their cries , the ground shaking with the beat of their hoofs , the valley choked with the rushing torrent of steel , topped by the waving plumes , the slanting spears and the fluttering banderoles . On they swept over the level and up to the slope , ere they met the blinding storm of the English arrows . Down went the whole ranks in a whirl of mad confusion , horses plunging and kicking , bewildered men falling , rising , staggering on or back , while ever new lines of horsemen came spurring through the gaps and urged their chargers up the fatal slope . All around him Alleyne could hear the stern , short orders of the master-bowmen , while the air was filled with the keen twanging of the strings and the swish and patter of the shafts . Right across the foot of the hill there had sprung up a long wall of struggling horses and stricken men , which ever grew and heightened as fresh squadrons poured on the attack . One young knight on a gray jennet leaped over his fallen comrades and galloped swiftly up the hill , shrieking loudly upon Saint James , ere he fell within a spear-length of the English line , with the feathers of arrows thrusting out from every crevice and joint of his armor . So for five long minutes the gallant horsemen of Spain and of France strove ever and again to force a passage , until the wailing note of a bugle called them back , and they rode slowly out of bow-shot , leaving their best and their bravest in the ghastly , blood-mottled heap behind them.But there was little rest for the victors . Whilst the knights had charged them in front the slingers had crept round upon either flank and had gained a footing upon the cliffs and behind the outlying rocks . A storm of stones broke suddenly upon the defenders , who , drawn up in lines upon the exposed summit , offered a fair mark to their hidden foes . Johnston , the old archer , was struck upon the temple and fell dead without a groan , while fifteen of his bowmen and six of the men-at-arms were struck down at the same moment . The others lay on their faces to avoid the deadly hail , while at each side of the plateau a fringe of bowmen exchanged shots with the slingers and crossbowmen among the rocks , aiming mainly at those who had swarmed up the cliffs , and bursting into laughter and cheers when a well-aimed shaft brought one of their opponents toppling down from his lofty perch . `` I think , Nigel , '' said Sir Oliver , striding across to the little knight , `` that we should all acquit ourselves better had we our none-meat , for the sun is high in the heaven . `` `` By Saint Paul ! '' quoth Sir Nigel , plucking the patch from his eye , `` I think that I am now clear of my vow , for this Spanish knight was a person from whom much honor might be won . Indeed , he was a very worthy gentleman , of good courage , and great hardiness , and it grieves me that he should have come by such a hurt . As to what you say of food , Oliver , it is not to be thought of , for we have nothing with us upon the hill. '' '' Nigel ! '' cried Sir Simon Burley , hurrying up with consternation upon his face , `` Aylward tells me that there are not ten-score arrows left in all their sheaves . See ! they are springing from their horses , and cutting their sollerets that they may rush upon us . Might we not even now make a retreat ? `` `` My soul will retreat from my body first ! '' cried the little knight . `` Here I am , and