the death o ' me.Ma conscience ! the words the chiel used was eneugh tae mak ' the hair stand straight on your heid . I wonder he wasna struck deid where he stood.We were still standin ' opposite each ither -- -he wi ' his knife and me wi ' the stick -- -when the general he cam up the drive and foond us . Tae my surprise he began tae talk tae the stranger as if he 'd kenned him a ' his days . `` Put your knife in your pocket , Corporal , '' says he . `` Your fears have turned your brain . `` `` Blood an ' wounds ! '' says the other . `` He 'd ha ' turned my brain tae some purpose wi ' that muckle stick o ' his if I hadna drawn my snickersnee . You shouldna keep siccan an auld savage on your premises . `` The maister he frooned and looked black at him , as though he didna relish advice comin ' frae such a source . Then turnin ' tae me -- - '' You wo n't be wanted after to-day , Israel , '' he says ; `` you have been a guid servant , and I ha ' naething tae complain of wi ' ye , but circumstances have arisen which will cause me tae change my arrangements . `` `` Vera guid , sir , '' says I . `` You can go this evening , '' says he , `` and you shall have an extra month 's pay tae mak up t'ye for this short notice . `` Wi ' that he went intae the hoose , followed by the man that he ca'ed the corporal , and frae that day tae this I have never clapped een either on the ane or the ither . My money was sent oot tae me in an envelope , and havin ' said a few pairtin ' words tae the cook and the wench wi ' reference tae the wrath tae come and the treasure that is richer than rubies , I shook the dust o ' Cloomber frae my feet for ever.Maister Fothergill West says I maunna express an opeenion as tae what cam aboot afterwards , but maun confine mysel ' tae what I saw mysel ' . Nae doubt he has his reasons for this -- -and far be it frae me tae hint that they are no ' guid anes -- -but I maun say this , that what happened didna surprise me . It was just as I expeckit , and so I said tae Maister Donald McSnaw.I 've tauld ye a ' aboot it noo , and I havena a word tae add or tae withdraw . I 'm muckle obleeged tae Maister Mathew Clairk for puttin ' it a ' doon in writin ' for me , and if there 's ony would wish tae speer onything mair o ' me I 'm well kenned and respeckit in Ecclefechan , and Maister McNeil , the factor o ' Wigtown , can aye tell where I am tae be foond . ( 1 ) The old rascal was well paid for his trouble , so he need not have made such a favour of it. -- -J.F.W.Having given the statement of Israel Stakesin extenso , I shall append a short memorandum from Dr. Easterling , now practising at Stranraer . It is true that the doctor was only once within the walls of Cloomber during its tenancy by General Heatherstone , but there were some circumstances connected with this visit which made it valuable , especially when considered as a supplement to the experiences which I have just submitted to the reader.The doctor has found time amid the calls of a busy country practice to jot down his recollections , and I feel that I can not do better than subjoin them exactly as they stand.I have very much pleasure in furnishing Mr. Fothergill West with an account of my solitary visit to Cloomber Hall , not only on account of the esteem which I have formed for that gentleman ever since his residence at Branksome , but also because it is my conviction that the facts in the case of General Heatherstone are of such a singular nature that it is of the highest importance that they should be placed before the public in a trustworthy manner.It was about the beginning of September of last year that I received a note from Mrs. Heatherstone , of Cloomber Hall , desiring me to make a professional call upon her husband , whose health , she said , had been for some time in a very unsatisfactory state.I had heard something of the Heatherstones and of the strange seclusion in which they lived , so that I was very much pleased at this opportunity of making their closer acquaintance , and lost no time in complying with her request.I had known the Hall in the old days of Mr. McVittie , the original proprietor , and I was astonished on arriving at the avenue gate to observe the changes which had taken place.The gate itself , which used to yawn so hospitably upon the road , was now barred and locked , and a high wooden fence , with nails upon the top , encircled the whole grounds . The drive itself was leaf-strewn and uncared-for , and the whole place had a depressing air of neglect and decay.I had to knock twice before a servant-maid opened the door and showed me through a dingy hall into a small room , where sat an elderly , careworn lady , who introduced herself as Mrs. Heatherstone . With her pale face , her grey hair , her sad , colourless eyes , and her faded silk dress , she was in perfect keeping with her melancholy surroundings . `` You find us in much trouble , doctor , '' she said , in a quiet , refined voice . `` My poor husband has had a great deal to worry him , and his nervous system for a long time has been in a very weak state . We came to this part of the country in the hope that the bracing air and the quiet would have a good effect upon him . Instead of improving , however , he has seemed to grow weaker , and this morning he is in a high fever and a little inclined to be delirious . The children and I were so frightened that we sent for you at once . If you will follow me I will take you to the general 's bedroom . `` She led the way down a series of corridors to the chamber of the sick man , which was situated in the extreme wing of the building.It was a carpetless , bleak-looking room , scantily furnished with a small truckle bed , a campaigning chair , and a plain deal table , on which were scattered numerous papers and books . In the centre of this table there stood a large object of irregular outline , which was covered over with a sheet of linen.All round the walls and in the corners were arranged a very choice and varied collection of arms , principally swords , some of which were of the straight pattern in common use in the British Army , while among the others were scimitars , tulwars , cuchurries , and a score of other specimens of Oriental workmanship . Many of these were richly mounted , with inlaid sheaths and hilts sparkling with precious stones , so that there was a piquant contrast between the simplicity of the apartment and the wealth which glittered on the walls.I had little time , however , to observe the general 's collection , since the general himself lay upon the couch and was evidently in sore need of my services.He was lying with his head turned half away from us . Breathing heavily , and apparently unconscious of our presence . His bright , staring eyes and the deep , hectic flush upon his cheek showed that his fever was at its height.I advanced to the bedside , and , stooping over him , I placed my fingers upon his pulse , when immediately he sprang up into the sitting position and struck at me frenziedly with his clenched hands . I have never seen such intensity of fear and horror stamped upon a human face as appeared upon that which was now glaring up at me. '' Bloodhound ! '' he yelled ; `` let me go -- -let me go , I say ! Keep your hands off me ! Is it not enough that my life has been ruined ? When is it all to end ? How long am I to endure it ? `` `` Hush , dear , hush ! '' said his wife in a soothing voice , passing her cool hand over his heated forehead . `` This is Doctor Easterling , from Stranraer . He has not come to harm you , but to do you good . `` The general dropped wearily back upon his pillow , and I could see by the changed expression of his face that his delirium had left him , and that he understood what had been said.I slipped my clinical thermometer into his armpit and counted his pulse rate . It amounted to 120 per minute , and his temperature proved to be 104 degrees . Clearly it was a case of remittent fever , such as occurs in men who have spent a great part of their lives in the tropics . `` There is no danger , '' I remarked . `` With a little quinine and arsenic we shall very soon overcome the attack and restore his health . `` `` No danger , eh ? '' he said . `` There never is any danger for me . I am as hard to kill as the Wandering Jew . I am quite clear in the head now , Mary ; so you may leave me with the doctor. '' Mrs . Heatherstone left the room -- -rather unwillingly , as I thought -- -and I sat down by the bedside to listen to anything which my patient might have to communicate . `` I want you to examine my liver , '' he said when the door was closed . `` I used to have an abscess there , and Brodie , the staff-surgeon , said that it was ten to one that it would carry me off . I have not felt much of it since I left the East . This is where it used to be , just under the angle of the ribs . `` `` I can find the place , '' said I , after making a careful examination ; `` but I am happy to tell you that the abscess has either been entirely absorbed , or has turned calcareous , as these solitary abscesses will . There is no fear of its doing you any harm now . `` He seemed to be by no means overjoyed at the intelligence . `` Things always happen so with me , '' he said moodily . `` Now , if another fellow was feverish and delirious he would surely be in some danger , and yet you will tell me that I am in none . Look at this , now . '' He bared his chest and showed me a puckered wound over the region of the heart . `` That 's where the jezail bullet of a Hillman went in . You would think that was in the right spot to settle a