of public duty . I have no doubt , for example , that the Fernworthy people will burn me in effigy tonight . I told the police last time they did it that they should stop these disgraceful exhibitions . The County Constabulary is in a scandalous state , sir , and it has not afforded me the protection to which I am entitled . The case of Frankland v. Regina will bring the matter before the attention of the public . I told them that they would have occasion to regret their treatment of me , and already my words have come true . `` `` How so ? '' I asked.The old man put on a very knowing expression . `` Because I could tell them what they are dying to know ; but nothing would induce me to help the rascals in any way . `` I had been casting round for some excuse by which I could get away from his gossip , but now I began to wish to hear more of it . I had seen enough of the contrary nature of the old sinner to understand that any strong sign of interest would be the surest way to stop his confidences . `` Some poaching case , no doubt ? '' said I with an indifferent manner . `` Ha , ha , my boy , a very much more important matter than that ! What about the convict on the moor ? `` I stared . `` You do n't mean that you know where he is ? '' said I . `` I may not know exactly where he is , but I am quite sure that I could help the police to lay their hands on him . Has it never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where he got his food and so trace it to him ? `` He certainly seemed to be getting uncomfortably near the truth . `` No doubt , '' said I ; `` but how do you know that he is anywhere upon the moor ? `` `` I know it because I have seen with my own eyes the messenger who takes him his food . `` My heart sank for Barrymore . It was a serious thing to be in the power of this spiteful old busybody . But his next remark took a weight from my mind . `` You 'll be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a child . I see him every day through my telescope upon the roof . He passes along the same path at the same hour , and to whom should he be going except to the convict ? `` Here was luck indeed ! And yet I suppressed all appearance of interest . A child ! Barrymore had said that our unknown was supplied by a boy . It was on his track , and not upon the convict 's , that Frankland had stumbled . If I could get his knowledge it might save me a long and weary hunt . But incredulity and indifference were evidently my strongest cards . `` I should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father 's dinner . `` The least appearance of opposition struck fire out of the old autocrat . His eyes looked malignantly at me , and his gray whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat . `` Indeed , sir ! '' said he , pointing out over the wide-stretching moor . `` Do you see that Black Tor over yonder ? Well , do you see the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it ? It is the stoniest part of the whole moor . Is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take his station ? Your suggestion , sir , is a most absurd one . `` I meekly answered that I had spoken without knowing all the facts . My submission pleased him and led him to further confidences . `` You may be sure , sir , that I have very good grounds before I come to an opinion . I have seen the boy again and again with his bundle . Every day , and sometimes twice a day , I have been able -- -but wait a moment , Dr. Watson . Do my eyes deceive me , or is there at the present moment something moving upon that hillside ? `` It was several miles off , but I could distinctly see a small dark dot against the dull green and gray . `` Come , sir , come ! '' cried Frankland , rushing upstairs . `` You will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself . `` The telescope , a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod , stood upon the flat leads of the house . Frankland clapped his eye to it and gave a cry of satisfaction . `` Quick , Dr. Watson , quick , before he passes over the hill ! `` There he was , sure enough , a small urchin with a little bundle upon his shoulder , toiling slowly up the hill . When he reached the crest I saw the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an instant against the cold blue sky . He looked round him with a furtive and stealthy air , as one who dreads pursuit . Then he vanished over the hill. '' Well ! Am I right ? `` `` Certainly , there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand . `` `` And what the errand is even a county constable could guess . But not one word shall they have from me , and I bind you to secrecy also , Dr. Watson . Not a word ! You understand ! `` `` Just as you wish . `` `` They have treated me shamefully -- -shamefully . When the facts come out in Frankland v. Regina I venture to think that a thrill of indignation will run through the country . Nothing would induce me to help the police in any way . For all they cared it might have been me , instead of my effigy , which these rascals burned at the stake . Surely you are not going ! You will help me to empty the decanter in honour of this great occasion ! `` But I resisted all his solicitations and succeeded in dissuading him from his announced intention of walking home with me . I kept the road as long as his eye was on me , and then I struck off across the moor and made for the stony hill over which the boy had disappeared . Everything was working in my favour , and I swore that it should not be through lack of energy or perseverance that I should miss the chance which fortune had thrown in my way.The sun was already sinking when I reached the summit of the hill , and the long slopes beneath me were all golden-green on one side and gray shadow on the other . A haze lay low upon the farthest sky-line , out of which jutted the fantastic shapes of Belliver and Vixen Tor . Over the wide expanse there was no sound and no movement . One great gray bird , a gull or curlew , soared aloft in the blue heaven . He and I seemed to be the only living things between the huge arch of the sky and the desert beneath it . The barren scene , the sense of loneliness , and the mystery and urgency of my task all struck a chill into my heart . The boy was nowhere to be seen . But down beneath me in a cleft of the hills there was a circle of the old stone huts , and in the middle of them there was one which retained sufficient roof to act as a screen against the weather . My heart leaped within me as I saw it . This must be the burrow where the stranger lurked . At last my foot was on the threshold of his hiding place -- -his secret was within my grasp.As I approached the hut , walking as warily as Stapleton would do when with poised net he drew near the settled butterfly , I satisfied myself that the place had indeed been used as a habitation . A vague pathway among the boulders led to the dilapidated opening which served as a door . All was silent within . The unknown might be lurking there , or he might be prowling on the moor . My nerves tingled with the sense of adventure . Throwing aside my cigarette , I closed my hand upon the butt of my revolver and , walking swiftly up to the door , I looked in . The place was empty.But there were ample signs that I had not come upon a false scent . This was certainly where the man lived . Some blankets rolled in a waterproof lay upon that very stone slab upon which Neolithic man had once slumbered . The ashes of a fire were heaped in a rude grate . Beside it lay some cooking utensils and a bucket half-full of water . A litter of empty tins showed that the place had been occupied for some time , and I saw , as my eyes became accustomed to the checkered light , a pannikin and a half-full bottle of spirits standing in the corner . In the middle of the hut a flat stone served the purpose of a table , and upon this stood a small cloth bundle -- -the same , no doubt , which I had seen through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy . It contained a loaf of bread , a tinned tongue , and two tins of preserved peaches . As I set it down again , after having examined it , my heart leaped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper with writing upon it . I raised it , and this was what I read , roughly scrawled in pencil : `` Dr. Watson has gone to Coombe Tracey . `` For a minute I stood there with the paper in my hands thinking out the meaning of this curt message . It was I , then , and not Sir Henry , who was being dogged by this secret man . He had not followed me himself , but he had set an agent -- -the boy , perhaps -- -upon my track , and this was his report . Possibly I had taken no step since I had been upon the moor which had not been observed and reported . Always there was this feeling of an unseen force , a fine net drawn round us with infinite skill and delicacy , holding us so lightly that it was only at some supreme moment that one realized that one was indeed entangled in its meshes.If there was one report there might be others , so I looked round the hut in search of them . There was no trace , however , of anything of the kind , nor could I discover any sign which might indicate the character or intentions of the man who lived in this singular place , save that he must be of Spartan habits and cared little for the comforts of life . When I thought of the heavy rains and looked at the gaping roof I understood how strong and immutable must be the purpose which had kept