was full of peril . Every plunge of the excited horse brought it against the horns again , and goaded it to fresh madness . It was all that the girl could do to keep herself in the saddle , yet a slip would mean a terrible death under the hoofs of the unwieldy and terrified animals . Unaccustomed to sudden emergencies , her head began to swim , and her grip upon the bridle to relax . Choked by the rising cloud of dust and by the steam from the struggling creatures , she might have abandoned her efforts in despair , but for a kindly voice at her elbow which assured her of assistance . At the same moment a sinewy brown hand caught the frightened horse by the curb , and forcing a way through the drove , soon brought her to the outskirts . `` You 're not hurt , I hope , miss , '' said her preserver , respectfully.She looked up at his dark , fierce face , and laughed saucily . `` I 'm awful frightened , '' she said , naively ; `` whoever would have thought that Poncho would have been so scared by a lot of cows ? `` `` Thank God you kept your seat , '' the other said earnestly . He was a tall , savage-looking young fellow , mounted on a powerful roan horse , and clad in the rough dress of a hunter , with a long rifle slung over his shoulders . `` I guess you are the daughter of John Ferrier , '' he remarked , `` I saw you ride down from his house . When you see him , ask him if he remembers the Jefferson Hopes of St. Louis . If he 's the same Ferrier , my father and he were pretty thick . `` `` Had n't you better come and ask yourself ? '' she asked , demurely.The young fellow seemed pleased at the suggestion , and his dark eyes sparkled with pleasure . `` I 'll do so , '' he said , `` we 've been in the mountains for two months , and are not over and above in visiting condition . He must take us as he finds us . `` `` He has a good deal to thank you for , and so have I , '' she answered , `` he 's awful fond of me . If those cows had jumped on me he 'd have never got over it . `` `` Neither would I , '' said her companion. '' You ! Well , I do n't see that it would make much matter to you , anyhow . You ai n't even a friend of ours . `` The young hunter 's dark face grew so gloomy over this remark that Lucy Ferrier laughed aloud . `` There , I did n't mean that , '' she said ; `` of course , you are a friend now . You must come and see us . Now I must push along , or father wo n't trust me with his business any more . Good-bye ! `` `` Good-bye , '' he answered , raising his broad sombrero , and bending over her little hand . She wheeled her mustang round , gave it a cut with her riding-whip , and darted away down the broad road in a rolling cloud of dust.Young Jefferson Hope rode on with his companions , gloomy and taciturn . He and they had been among the Nevada Mountains prospecting for silver , and were returning to Salt Lake City in the hope of raising capital enough to work some lodes which they had discovered . He had been as keen as any of them upon the business until this sudden incident had drawn his thoughts into another channel . The sight of the fair young girl , as frank and wholesome as the Sierra breezes , had stirred his volcanic , untamed heart to its very depths . When she had vanished from his sight , he realized that a crisis had come in his life , and that neither silver speculations nor any other questions could ever be of such importance to him as this new and all-absorbing one . The love which had sprung up in his heart was not the sudden , changeable fancy of a boy , but rather the wild , fierce passion of a man of strong will and imperious temper . He had been accustomed to succeed in all that he undertook . He swore in his heart that he would not fail in this if human effort and human perseverance could render him successful.He called on John Ferrier that night , and many times again , until his face was a familiar one at the farm-house . John , cooped up in the valley , and absorbed in his work , had had little chance of learning the news of the outside world during the last twelve years . All this Jefferson Hope was able to tell him , and in a style which interested Lucy as well as her father . He had been a pioneer in California , and could narrate many a strange tale of fortunes made and fortunes lost in those wild , halcyon days . He had been a scout too , and a trapper , a silver explorer , and a ranchman . Wherever stirring adventures were to be had , Jefferson Hope had been there in search of them . He soon became a favourite with the old farmer , who spoke eloquently of his virtues . On such occasions , Lucy was silent , but her blushing cheek and her bright , happy eyes , showed only too clearly that her young heart was no longer her own . Her honest father may not have observed these symptoms , but they were assuredly not thrown away upon the man who had won her affections.It was a summer evening when he came galloping down the road and pulled up at the gate . She was at the doorway , and came down to meet him . He threw the bridle over the fence and strode up the pathway . `` I am off , Lucy , '' he said , taking her two hands in his , and gazing tenderly down into her face ; `` I wo n't ask you to come with me now , but will you be ready to come when I am here again ? `` `` And when will that be ? '' she asked , blushing and laughing . `` A couple of months at the outside . I will come and claim you then , my darling . There 's no one who can stand between us . `` `` And how about father ? '' she asked . `` He has given his consent , provided we get these mines working all right . I have no fear on that head . `` `` Oh , well ; of course , if you and father have arranged it all , there 's no more to be said , '' she whispered , with her cheek against his broad breast . `` Thank God ! '' he said , hoarsely , stooping and kissing her . `` It is settled , then . The longer I stay , the harder it will be to go . They are waiting for me at the cañon . Good-bye , my own darling -- -good-bye . In two months you shall see me . `` He tore himself from her as he spoke , and , flinging himself upon his horse , galloped furiously away , never even looking round , as though afraid that his resolution might fail him if he took one glance at what he was leaving . She stood at the gate , gazing after him until he vanished from her sight . Then she walked back into the house , the happiest girl in all Utah.THREE weeks had passed since Jefferson Hope and his comrades had departed from Salt Lake City . John Ferrier 's heart was sore within him when he thought of the young man 's return , and of the impending loss of his adopted child . Yet her bright and happy face reconciled him to the arrangement more than any argument could have done . He had always determined , deep down in his resolute heart , that nothing would ever induce him to allow his daughter to wed a Mormon . Such a marriage he regarded as no marriage at all , but as a shame and a disgrace . Whatever he might think of the Mormon doctrines , upon that one point he was inflexible . He had to seal his mouth on the subject , however , for to express an unorthodox opinion was a dangerous matter in those days in the Land of the Saints.Yes , a dangerous matter -- -so dangerous that even the most saintly dared only whisper their religious opinions with bated breath , lest something which fell from their lips might be misconstrued , and bring down a swift retribution upon them . The victims of persecution had now turned persecutors on their own account , and persecutors of the most terrible description . Not the Inquisition of Seville , nor the German Vehm-gericht , nor the Secret Societies of Italy , were ever able to put a more formidable machinery in motion than that which cast a cloud over the State of Utah.Its invisibility , and the mystery which was attached to it , made this organization doubly terrible . It appeared to be omniscient and omnipotent , and yet was neither seen nor heard . The man who held out against the Church vanished away , and none knew whither he had gone or what had befallen him . His wife and his children awaited him at home , but no father ever returned to tell them how he had fared at the hands of his secret judges . A rash word or a hasty act was followed by annihilation , and yet none knew what the nature might be of this terrible power which was suspended over them . No wonder that men went about in fear and trembling , and that even in the heart of the wilderness they dared not whisper the doubts which oppressed them.At first this vague and terrible power was exercised only upon the recalcitrants who , having embraced the Mormon faith , wished afterwards to pervert or to abandon it . Soon , however , it took a wider range . The supply of adult women was running short , and polygamy without a female population on which to draw was a barren doctrine indeed . Strange rumours began to be bandied about -- -rumours of murdered immigrants and rifled camps in regions where Indians had never been seen . Fresh women appeared in the harems of the Elders -- -women who pined and wept , and bore upon their faces the traces of an unextinguishable horror . Belated wanderers upon the mountains spoke of gangs of armed men , masked , stealthy , and noiseless , who flitted by them in the darkness . These tales and rumours took substance and shape , and were corroborated and re-corroborated , until they resolved themselves into a definite name . To this day , in the lonely ranches of the West , the name of the Danite Band , or the Avenging Angels , is a sinister and an ill-omened one.Fuller knowledge of the organization which produced such terrible results served to increase rather than to lessen the horror which it inspired in the minds of