up twining and curving into a thousand arabesque and armorial devices until it blended with the richly painted ceiling . In one corner a narrow couch with a rug thrown across it showed where the faithful Bontems had spent the night.In the very centre of the chamber there stood a large four-post bed , with curtains of Gobelin tapestry looped back from the pillow . A square of polished rails surrounded it , leaving a space some five feet in width all round between the enclosure and the bedside . Within this enclosure , orruelle , stood a small round table , covered over with a white napkin , upon which lay a silver platter and an enamelled cup , the one containing a little Frontiniac wine and water , the other bearing three slices of the breast of a chicken , in case the king should hunger during the night.As Bontems passed noiselessly across the room , his feet sinking into the moss-like carpet , there was the heavy close smell of sleep in the air , and he could near the long thin breathing of the sleeper . He passed through the opening in the rails , and stood , watch in hand , waiting for the exact instant when the iron routine of the court demanded that the monarch should be roused . Beneath him , from under the costly green coverlet of Oriental silk , half buried in the fluffy Valenciennes lace which edged the pillow , there protruded a round black bristle of close-cropped hair , with the profile of a curving nose and petulant lip outlined against the white background . The valet snapped his watch , and bent over the sleeper . `` I have the honour to inform your Majesty that it is half-past eight , '' said he. '' Ah ! '' The king slowly opened his large dark-brown eyes , made the sign of the cross , and kissed a little dark reliquary which he drew from under his night-dress . Then he sat up in bed , and blinked about him with the air of a man who is collecting his thoughts . `` Did you give my orders to the officer of the guard , Bontems ? '' he asked . `` Yes , sire . `` `` Who is on duty ? `` `` Major de Brissac at the main guard , and Captain de Catinat in the corridor . `` `` De Catinat ! Ah , the young man who stopped my horse at Fontainebleau.I remember him . You may give the signal , Bontems . `` The chief valet walked swiftly across to the door and threw it open . In rushed the officer of the ovens and the four red-coated , white-wigged footmen , ready-handed , silent-footed , each intent upon his own duties . The one seized upon Bontem 's rug and couch , and in an instant had whipped them off into an ante-chamber , another had carried away theen casmeal and the silver taper-stand ; while a third drew back the great curtains of stamped velvet and let a flood of light into the apartment . Then , as the flames were already flickering among the pine shavings in the fireplace , the officer of the ovens placed two round logs crosswise above them , for the morning air was chilly , and withdrew with his fellow-servants.They were hardly gone before a more august group entered the bed-chamber . Two walked together in front , the one a youth little over twenty years of age , middle-sized , inclining to stoutness , with a slow , pompous bearing , a well-turned leg , and a face which was comely enough in a mask-like fashion , but which was devoid of any shadow of expression , except perhaps of an occasional lurking gleam of mischievous humour . He was richly clad in plum-coloured velvet , with a broad band of blue silk ; across his breast , and the glittering edge of the order of St. Louis protruding from under it . His companion was a man of forty , swarthy , dignified , and solemn , in a plain but rich dress of black silk , with slashes of gold at the neck and sleeves . As the pair faced the king there was sufficient resemblance between the three faces to show that they were of one blood , and to enable a stranger to guess that the older was Monsieur , the younger brother of the king , while the other was Louis the Dauphin , his only legitimate child , and heir to a throne to which in the strange workings of Providence neither he nor his sons were destined to ascend.Strong as was the likeness between the three faces , each with the curving Bourbon nose , the large full eye , and the thick Hapsburg under-lip , their common heritage from Anne of Austria , there was still a vast difference of temperament and character stamped upon their features . The king was now in his six-and-fortieth year , and the cropped black head was already thinning a little on the top , and shading away to gray over the temples . He still , however , retained much of the beauty of his youth , tempered by the dignity and sternness which increased with his years . His dark eyes were full of expression , and his clear-cut features were the delight of the sculptor and the painter . His firm and yet sensitive mouth and his thick , well-arched brows gave an air of authority and power to his face , while the more subdued expression which was habitual to his brother marked the man whose whole life had been spent in one long exercise of deference and self-effacement . The dauphin , on the other hand , with a more regular face than his father , had none of that quick play of feature when excited , or that kingly serenity when composed , which had made a shrewd observer say that Louis , if he were not the greatest monarch that ever lived , was at least the best fitted to act the part.Behind the king 's son and the king 's brother there entered a little group of notables and of officials whom duty had called to this daily ceremony . There was the grand master of the robes , the first lord of the bed-chamber , the Duc du Maine , a pale youth clad in black velvet , limping heavily with his left leg , and his little brother , the young Comte de Toulouse , both of them the illegitimate sons of Madame de Montespan and the king . Behind them , again , was the first valet of the wardrobe , followed by Fagon , the first physician , Telier , the head surgeon , and three pages in scarlet and gold who bore the royal clothes . Such were the partakers in the family entry , the highest honour which the court of France could aspire to.Bontems had poured on the king 's hands a few drops of spirits of wine , catching them again in a silver dish ; and the first lord of the bedchamber had presented the bowl of holy water with which he made the sign of the cross , muttering to himself the short office of the Holy Ghost . Then , with a nod to his brother and a short word of greeting to the dauphin and to the Due du Maine , he swung his legs over the side of the bed and sat in his long silken night-dress , his little white feet dangling from beneath it -- -a perilous position for any man to assume , were it not that he had so heart-felt a sense of his own dignity that he could not realise that under any circumstances it might be compromised in the eyes of others . So he sat , the master of France , yet the slave to every puff of wind , for a wandering draught had set him shivering and shaking . Monsieur de St. Quentin , the noble barber , flung a purple dressing-gown over the royal shoulders , and placed a long many-curled court wig upon his head , while Bontems drew on his red stockings and laid before him his slippers of embroidered velvet . The monarch thrust his feet into them , tied his dressing-gown , and passed out to the fireplace , where he settled himself down in his easy-chair , holding out his thin delicate hands towards the blazing logs , while the others stood round in a semicircle , waiting for thegrand leverwhich was to follow . `` How is this , messieurs ? '' the king asked suddenly , glancing round him with a petulant face . `` I am conscious of a smell of scent . Surely none of you would venture to bring perfume into the presence , knowing , as you must all do , how offensive it is to me . `` The little group glanced from one to the other with protestations of innocence . The faithful Bontems , however , with his stealthy step , had passed along behind them , and had detected the offender . `` My lord of Toulouse , the smell comes from you , '' he said.The Comte de Toulouse , a little ruddy-cheeked lad , flushed up at the detection . `` If you please , sire , it is possible that Mademoiselle de Grammont may have wet my coat with her casting-bottle when we all played together at Marly yesterday , '' he stammered . `` I had not observed it , but if it offends your Majesty -- - '' '' Take it away ! take it away ! '' cried the king . `` Pah ! it chokes and stifles me ! Open the lower casement , Bontems . No ; never heed , now that he is gone . Monsieur de St. Quentin , is not this our shaving morning ? `` `` Yes , sire ; all is ready . `` `` Then why not proceed ? It is three minutes after the accustomed time.To work , sir ; and you , Bontems , give word for thegrand lever . `` It was obvious that the king was not in a very good humour that morning . He darted little quick questioning glances at his brother and at his sons , but whatever complaint or sarcasm may have trembled upon his lips , was effectually stifled by De St. Quentin 's ministrations . With the nonchalance born of long custom , the official covered the royal chin with soap , drew the razor swiftly round it , and sponged over the surface with spirits of wine . A nobleman then helped to draw on the king 's black velvethaut-de-chausses , a second assisted in arranging them , while a third drew the night-gown over the shoulders , and handed the royal shirt , which had been warming before the fire . His diamond-buckled shoes , his gaiters , and his scarlet inner vest were successively fastened by noble courtiers , each keenly jealous of his own privilege , and over the vest was placed the blue ribbon with the cross of the Holy Ghost in diamonds , and that of St. Louis tied with red . To one to whom the sight was new , it might have seemed strange to see the little man , listless , passive , with his eyes fixed thoughtfully on the burning logs , while this group of men , each with a historic name , bustled round him , adding a touch here and a touch there , like a