his neck he had a coarse string from which hung a pair of double eye-glasses . These he fixed upon his aquiline nose , and took a good look at the gentlemen whom he had come to serve.Bulow , of Kiel , was a small , dark-eyed , clean-shaven fellow , quick and energetic in his movements , having more the appearance of a Celt than of a Teuton . He seemed to be full of amiability , and assured the major in execrable English how very happy he was to be able to do a service to one who had shown kindness to their esteemed colleague and persecuted patriot , Von Baumser . Indeed both of the men showed great deference to the German , and the major began to perceive that his friend was a very exalted individual in Socialistic circles . He liked the look of the two foreigners , and congratulated himself upon having their co-operation in the matter on hand.Ill luck was in store for the expedition , however . On inquiry at the ticket-office they found that there was no train for upwards of two hours , and then it was a slow one which would not land them until eight o'clock at Bedsworth . At this piece of information Tom Dimsdale fairly broke down , and stamped about the station , raving and beseeching the officials to run a special , be the cost what it might . This , however , could by no means be done , owing to the press of Saturday traffic . There was nothing for it but to wait . The three foreigners went off in search of something to eat , and having found a convenient cookshop they disappeared therein and feasted royally at Von Baumser 's expense . Major Tobias Clutterbuck remained with the young man , who resolutely refused to leave the platform . The major knew of a snug little corner not far off where he could have put in the time very comfortably , but he could not bring himself to desert his companion even for a minute . I have no doubt that that wait of two hours in the draughty station is marked up somewhere to the old sinner 's credit account.Indeed , it was well that day that young Dimsdale had good friends at his back . His appearance was so strange and wild that the passers-by turned back to have another look at him , His eyes were open and staring , giving a fear-inspiring character to his expression . He could not sit still for an instant , but paced up and down and backwards and forwards under the influence of the fierce energy which consumed him , while the major plodded along manfully at his side , suggesting every consideration which might cheer him up , and narrating many tales , true and apocryphal , most of which fell upon heedless ears.Ezra Girdlestone had four hours ' start of them . That was the thought which rankled in Tom 's heart and outweighed every other consideration . He knew Kate 's nature so well that he was convinced that she would never have expressed such fears to Mrs. Scully unless she had very assured reasons for them . In fact , apart from her own words , what could this secrecy and seclusion mean except foul play . After what he had learned about the insurance of the ships and the manner in which the elder Girdlestone had induced him to cease corresponding with Kate , he could believe anything of his partners . He knew , also , that in case of Kate 's death the money reverted to her guardian . There was not a single link missing in the chain of evidence which showed that a crime was in contemplation . Then , who was that butcher-like man whom Ezra was taking down with him ? Tom could have torn his hair as he thought of his present impotence and of his folly in losing sight of young Girdlestone.The major has put it on record that those two hours appeared to him the longest that ever he passed in his life , and Tom , no doubt , would endorse the sentiment . Everything must have an end , however , and the station clock , the hands of which seemed several times to have stopped altogether , began at last to approach the hour at which the Portsmouth train was timed to depart . Baumser and his two friends had come back , all three smoking cigarettes , and looking the better for their visit to the cookshop . The five got into a first-class railway carriage and waited . Would they never have done examining tickets and stamping luggage and going through all sorts of tedious formalities ? At last , thank God ! comes the shrill whistle of the guard , the answering snort from the engine , and they are fairly started upon their mission of rescue.There was much to be arranged as to their plan of action . Tom , Von Baumser , and the major talked it over in a low voice , while the two Socialists chatted together in German and consumed eternal cigarettes . Tom was for marching straight up to the Priory and demanding that Girdlestone should deliver his ward up to them . To the major and the German this seemed an unwise proceeding . It was to put themselves hopelessly wrong from a legal point of view . Girdlestone had only to say , as he assuredly would , that the whole story was a ridiculous mare 's nest , and then what proof could they adduce , or what excuse give for their interference . However plausible their suspicions might be , they were , after all , only suspicions , which other people might not view in as grave a light . `` What would you advise , then ? '' Tom asked , passing his hand over his heated forehead. '' Bedad ! I 'll tell you the plan , '' the old soldier answered , `` and I think me friend Von Baumser will agray with me . I understand that this place is surrounded by a wall to which there is only one gate . Sure , we shall wait outside this wall , and one of us can go in as a skirmisher and find out how the land lies . Let him ascertain from the young lady herself if she requires immadiate help , and what she would wish done . If he ca n't make his way to her , let him hang about the house , and see and hear all that he can . We shall then have something solid to work on . I have a dog whistle here on me watch-chain , given me by Charley Gill , of the Inniskillens . Our skirmisher could take that with him , and if he wants immadiate help one blow of it would be enough to bring the four of us over to him . Though how the divil I am to git over a wall , '' concluded the major ruefully , looking down at his own proportions , `` is more than I can tell . `` `` I hope , my vriends , '' said Von Baumser , `` dat you vill allow me the honour of going first , for ven I vas in the Swabian Jager I vas always counted a very good spion . `` `` That is my place , '' said Tom with decision . `` You have the best claim , '' the major answered . `` What a train this is ! Ged , it 's as slow as the one which Jimmy Travers , of the Commissariat , travelled in in America . They were staming along , according to Jimmy , when they saw a cow walking along the loine in front of them . They all thought that they were going to run into her , but it was all right , for they never overtook her , and she soon walked clane out of sight . Here we are at a station ! How far to Bedsworth , guard ? `` `` Next station , sir . `` `` Thank the Lord ! It 's twinty to eight . We are rather behind our time.You always are if you are in a particular hurry . `` It was nearly eight o'clock by the time they reached their destination . The station-master directed them to theFlying Bull , where they secured the very vehicle in which Kate and her guardian had been originally driven up . By the time that the horse was put in it was close upon the half-hour . `` Drive as hard as you can go to the Proiory , me man , '' said the major.The sulky ostler made no remark , but a look of surprise passed over his phlegmatic countenance . For years back so little had been heard of the old monastery that its very existence had been almost forgotten in Bedsworth . Now whole troops of Londoners were coming down in succession , demanding to be driven there . He pondered over the strange fact as he drove through the darkness , but the only conclusion to which his bucolic mind could come was that it was high time to raise the fare to that particular point.It was a miserable night , stormy and wet and bitterly cold . None of the five men had a thought to spare for the weather , however . The two foreigners had been so infected by the suppressed excitement of their companions , or had so identified themselves with their comrades ' cause , that they were as eager as the others . `` Are we near ? '' the major asked . `` The gate is just at the end o ' the lane , sir . `` `` Do n't pull up at the gate , but take us a little past it . `` `` There ai n't no way in except the gate , '' the driver remarked . `` Do what you 're ordered , '' said the major sternly . Once again the ostler 's face betrayed unbounded astonishment . He slewed half-way round in his seat and took as good a look as was possible in the uncertain light at the faces of his passengers . It had occurred to him that it was more than likely that he would have to swear to them at some future date in a police-court . `` I 'd know that thick 'un wi ' the red face , '' he muttered to himself , `` and him wi ' the yeller beard and the stick . `` They passed the stone pillars with the weather-beaten heraldic devices , and drove along by the high park wall . When they had gone a hundred yards or so the major ordered the driver to pull up , and they all got down . The increased fare was paid without remonstrance , and the ostler rattled away homewards , with the intention of pulling up at the county police-station and lodging information as to the suspicious visitors whom he had brought down . `` It is loikely that they have a watch at the gate , '' said the major . `` We must kape away from there . This wall is a great hoight . We 'd best kape on until we find the aisiest place to scale it . `` `` I could get over it here , '' Tom said eagerly . `` Wait a bit . A few minutes can make no difference one way or the