trolley piled high with trunks , wraps , and gun-cases . Professor Summerlee , a long , melancholy figure , walks with dragging steps and drooping head , as one who is already profoundly sorry for himself . Lord John Roxton steps briskly , and his thin , eager face beams forth between his hunting-cap and his muffler . As for myself , I am glad to have got the bustling days of preparation and the pangs of leave-taking behind me , and I have no doubt that I show it in my bearing . Suddenly , just as we reach the vessel , there is a shout behind us . It is Professor Challenger , who had promised to see us off . He runs after us , a puffing , red-faced , irascible figure . `` No thank you , '' says he ; `` I should much prefer not to go aboard . I have only a few words to say to you , and they can very well be said where we are . I beg you not to imagine that I am in any way indebted to you for making this journey . I would have you to understand that it is a matter of perfect indifference to me , and I refuse to entertain the most remote sense of personal obligation . Truth is truth , and nothing which you can report can affect it in any way , though it may excite the emotions and allay the curiosity of a number of very ineffectual people . My directions for your instruction and guidance are in this sealed envelope . You will open it when you reach a town upon the Amazon which is called Manaos , but not until the date and hour which is marked upon the outside . Have I made myself clear ? I leave the strict observance of my conditions entirely to your honor . No , Mr. Malone , I will place no restriction upon your correspondence , since the ventilation of the facts is the object of your journey ; but I demand that you shall give no particulars as to your exact destination , and that nothing be actually published until your return . Good-bye , sir . You have done something to mitigate my feelings for the loathsome profession to which you unhappily belong . Good-bye , Lord John . Science is , as I understand , a sealed book to you ; but you may congratulate yourself upon the hunting-field which awaits you . You will , no doubt , have the opportunity of describing in the Field how you brought down the rocketing dimorphodon . And good-bye to you also , Professor Summerlee . If you are still capable of self-improvement , of which I am frankly unconvinced , you will surely return to London a wiser man . `` So he turned upon his heel , and a minute later from the deck I could see his short , squat figure bobbing about in the distance as he made his way back to his train . Well , we are well down Channel now . There 's the last bell for letters , and it 's good-bye to the pilot . We 'll be `` down , hull-down , on the old trail '' from now on . God bless all we leave behind us , and send us safely back.I will not bore those whom this narrative may reach by an account of our luxurious voyage upon the Booth liner , nor will I tell of our week 's stay at Para ( save that I should wish to acknowledge the great kindness of the Pereira da Pinta Company in helping us to get together our equipment ) . I will also allude very briefly to our river journey , up a wide , slow-moving , clay-tinted stream , in a steamer which was little smaller than that which had carried us across the Atlantic . Eventually we found ourselves through the narrows of Obidos and reached the town of Manaos . Here we were rescued from the limited attractions of the local inn by Mr. Shortman , the representative of the British and Brazilian Trading Company . In his hospital Fazenda we spent our time until the day when we were empowered to open the letter of instructions given to us by Professor Challenger . Before I reach the surprising events of that date I would desire to give a clearer sketch of my comrades in this enterprise , and of the associates whom we had already gathered together in South America . I speak freely , and I leave the use of my material to your own discretion , Mr. McArdle , since it is through your hands that this report must pass before it reaches the world.The scientific attainments of Professor Summerlee are too well known for me to trouble to recapitulate them . He is better equipped for a rough expedition of this sort than one would imagine at first sight . His tall , gaunt , stringy figure is insensible to fatigue , and his dry , half-sarcastic , and often wholly unsympathetic manner is uninfluenced by any change in his surroundings . Though in his sixty-sixth year , I have never heard him express any dissatisfaction at the occasional hardships which we have had to encounter . I had regarded his presence as an encumbrance to the expedition , but , as a matter of fact , I am now well convinced that his power of endurance is as great as my own . In temper he is naturally acid and sceptical . From the beginning he has never concealed his belief that Professor Challenger is an absolute fraud , that we are all embarked upon an absurd wild-goose chase and that we are likely to reap nothing but disappointment and danger in South America , and corresponding ridicule in England . Such are the views which , with much passionate distortion of his thin features and wagging of his thin , goat-like beard , he poured into our ears all the way from Southampton to Manaos . Since landing from the boat he has obtained some consolation from the beauty and variety of the insect and bird life around him , for he is absolutely whole-hearted in his devotion to science . He spends his days flitting through the woods with his shot-gun and his butterfly-net , and his evenings in mounting the many specimens he has acquired . Among his minor peculiarities are that he is careless as to his attire , unclean in his person , exceedingly absent-minded in his habits , and addicted to smoking a short briar pipe , which is seldom out of his mouth . He has been upon several scientific expeditions in his youth ( he was with Robertson in Papua ) , and the life of the camp and the canoe is nothing fresh to him.Lord John Roxton has some points in common with Professor Summerlee , and others in which they are the very antithesis to each other . He is twenty years younger , but has something of the same spare , scraggy physique . As to his appearance , I have , as I recollect , described it in that portion of my narrative which I have left behind me in London . He is exceedingly neat and prim in his ways , dresses always with great care in white drill suits and high brown mosquito-boots , and shaves at least once a day . Like most men of action , he is laconic in speech , and sinks readily into his own thoughts , but he is always quick to answer a question or join in a conversation , talking in a queer , jerky , half-humorous fashion . His knowledge of the world , and very especially of South America , is surprising , and he has a whole-hearted belief in the possibilities of our journey which is not to be dashed by the sneers of Professor Summerlee . He has a gentle voice and a quiet manner , but behind his twinkling blue eyes there lurks a capacity for furious wrath and implacable resolution , the more dangerous because they are held in leash . He spoke little of his own exploits in Brazil and Peru , but it was a revelation to me to find the excitement which was caused by his presence among the riverine natives , who looked upon him as their champion and protector . The exploits of the Red Chief , as they called him , had become legends among them , but the real facts , as far as I could learn them , were amazing enough.These were that Lord John had found himself some years before in that no-man's-land which is formed by the half-defined frontiers between Peru , Brazil , and Columbia . In this great district the wild rubber tree flourishes , and has become , as in the Congo , a curse to the natives which can only be compared to their forced labor under the Spaniards upon the old silver mines of Darien . A handful of villainous half-breeds dominated the country , armed such Indians as would support them , and turned the rest into slaves , terrorizing them with the most inhuman tortures in order to force them to gather the india-rubber , which was then floated down the river to Para . Lord John Roxton expostulated on behalf of the wretched victims , and received nothing but threats and insults for his pains . He then formally declared war against Pedro Lopez , the leader of the slave-drivers , enrolled a band of runaway slaves in his service , armed them , and conducted a campaign , which ended by his killing with his own hands the notorious half-breed and breaking down the system which he represented.No wonder that the ginger-headed man with the silky voice and the free and easy manners was now looked upon with deep interest upon the banks of the great South American river , though the feelings he inspired were naturally mixed , since the gratitude of the natives was equaled by the resentment of those who desired to exploit them . One useful result of his former experiences was that he could talk fluently in the Lingoa Geral , which is the peculiar talk , one-third Portuguese and two-thirds Indian , which is current all over Brazil.I have said before that Lord John Roxton was a South Americomaniac . He could not speak of that great country without ardor , and this ardor was infectious , for , ignorant as I was , he fixed my attention and stimulated my curiosity . How I wish I could reproduce the glamour of his discourses , the peculiar mixture of accurate knowledge and of racy imagination which gave them their fascination , until even the Professor 's cynical and sceptical smile would gradually vanish from his thin face as he listened . He would tell the history of the mighty river so rapidly explored ( for some of the first conquerors of Peru actually crossed the entire continent upon its waters ) , and yet so unknown in regard to all that lay behind its ever-changing banks . `` What is there ? '' he would cry , pointing to the north . `` Wood and marsh and unpenetrated jungle . Who knows what it may shelter ? And there to the south ? A wilderness of swampy forest , where no white man has ever been . The unknown is up against us on every side . Outside the narrow lines of the rivers what does anyone know ? Who will say what is possible in such a country ? Why