with a sudden shock to the personal and human meaning of it all.Above all , there was the fate of the children . That , I remember , filled us with the strongest sense of intolerable injustice . We could have wept -- -Mrs . Challenger did weep -- -when we passed a great council school and saw the long trail of tiny figures scattered down the road which led from it . They had been dismissed by their terrified teachers and were speeding for their homes when the poison caught them in its net . Great numbers of people were at the open windows of the houses . In Tunbridge Wells there was hardly one which had not its staring , smiling face . At the last instant the need of air , that very craving for oxygen which we alone had been able to satisfy , had sent them flying to the window . The sidewalks too were littered with men and women , hatless and bonnetless , who had rushed out of the houses . Many of them had fallen in the roadway . It was a lucky thing that in Lord John we had found an expert driver , for it was no easy matter to pick one 's way . Passing through the villages or towns we could only go at a walking pace , and once , I remember , opposite the school at Tonbridge , we had to halt some time while we carried aside the bodies which blocked our path.A few small , definite pictures stand out in my memory from amid that long panorama of death upon the Sussex and Kentish high roads . One was that of a great , glittering motor-car standing outside the inn at the village of Southborough . It bore , as I should guess , some pleasure party upon their return from Brighton or from Eastbourne . There were three gaily dressed women , all young and beautiful , one of them with a Peking spaniel upon her lap . With them were a rakish-looking elderly man and a young aristocrat , his eyeglass still in his eye , his cigarette burned down to the stub between the fingers of his begloved hand . Death must have come on them in an instant and fixed them as they sat . Save that the elderly man had at the last moment torn out his collar in an effort to breathe , they might all have been asleep . On one side of the car a waiter with some broken glasses beside a tray was huddled near the step . On the other , two very ragged tramps , a man and a woman , lay where they had fallen , the man with his long , thin arm still outstretched , even as he had asked for alms in his lifetime . One instant of time had put aristocrat , waiter , tramp , and dog upon one common footing of inert and dissolving protoplasm.I remember another singular picture , some miles on the London side of Sevenoaks . There is a large convent upon the left , with a long , green slope in front of it . Upon this slope were assembled a great number of school children , all kneeling at prayer . In front of them was a fringe of nuns , and higher up the slope , facing towards them , a single figure whom we took to be the Mother Superior . Unlike the pleasure-seekers in the motor-car , these people seemed to have had warning of their danger and to have died beautifully together , the teachers and the taught , assembled for their last common lesson.My mind is still stunned by that terrific experience , and I grope vainly for means of expression by which I can reproduce the emotions which we felt . Perhaps it is best and wisest not to try , but merely to indicate the facts . Even Summerlee and Challenger were crushed , and we heard nothing of our companions behind us save an occasional whimper from the lady . As to Lord John , he was too intent upon his wheel and the difficult task of threading his way along such roads to have time or inclination for conversation . One phrase he used with such wearisome iteration that it stuck in my memory and at last almost made me laugh as a comment upon the day of doom . `` Pretty doin 's ! What ! `` That was his ejaculation as each fresh tremendous combination of death and disaster displayed itself before us . `` Pretty doin 's ! What ! '' he cried , as we descended the station hill at Rotherfield , and it was still `` Pretty doin 's ! What ! '' as we picked our way through a wilderness of death in the High Street of Lewisham and the Old Kent Road.It was here that we received a sudden and amazing shock . Out of the window of a humble corner house there appeared a fluttering handkerchief waving at the end of a long , thin human arm . Never had the sight of unexpected death caused our hearts to stop and then throb so wildly as did this amazing indication of life . Lord John ran the motor to the curb , and in an instant we had rushed through the open door of the house and up the staircase to the second-floor front room from which the signal proceeded.A very old lady sat in a chair by the open window , and close to her , laid across a second chair , was a cylinder of oxygen , smaller but of the same shape as those which had saved our own lives . She turned her thin , drawn , bespectacled face toward us as we crowded in at the doorway . `` I feared that I was abandoned here forever , '' said she , `` for I am an invalid and can not stir . `` `` Well , madam , '' Challenger answered , `` it is a lucky chance that we happened to pass . `` `` I have one all-important question to ask you , '' said she . `` Gentlemen , I beg that you will be frank with me . What effect will these events have upon London and North-Western Railway shares ? `` We should have laughed had it not been for the tragic eagerness with which she listened for our answer . Mrs. Burston , for that was her name , was an aged widow , whose whole income depended upon a small holding of this stock . Her life had been regulated by the rise and fall of the dividend , and she could form no conception of existence save as it was affected by the quotation of her shares . In vain we pointed out to her that all the money in the world was hers for the taking and was useless when taken . Her old mind would not adapt itself to the new idea , and she wept loudly over her vanished stock . `` It was all I had , '' she wailed . `` If that is gone I may as well go too . `` Amid her lamentations we found out how this frail old plant had lived where the whole great forest had fallen . She was a confirmed invalid and an asthmatic . Oxygen had been prescribed for her malady , and a tube was in her room at the moment of the crisis . She had naturally inhaled some as had been her habit when there was a difficulty with her breathing . It had given her relief , and by doling out her supply she had managed to survive the night . Finally she had fallen asleep and been awakened by the buzz of our motor-car . As it was impossible to take her on with us , we saw that she had all necessaries of life and promised to communicate with her in a couple of days at the latest . So we left her , still weeping bitterly over her vanished stock.As we approached the Thames the block in the streets became thicker and the obstacles more bewildering . It was with difficulty that we made our way across London Bridge . The approaches to it upon the Middlesex side were choked from end to end with frozen traffic which made all further advance in that direction impossible . A ship was blazing brightly alongside one of the wharves near the bridge , and the air was full of drifting smuts and of a heavy acrid smell of burning . There was a cloud of dense smoke somewhere near the Houses of Parliament , but it was impossible from where we were to see what was on fire . `` I do n't know how it strikes you , '' Lord John remarked as he brought his engine to a standstill , `` but it seems to me the country is more cheerful than the town . Dead London is gettin ' on my nerves . I 'm for a cast round and then gettin ' back to Rotherfield . `` `` I confess that I do not see what we can hope for here , '' said Professor Summerlee . `` At the same time , '' said Challenger , his great voice booming strangely amid the silence , `` it is difficult for us to conceive that out of seven millions of people there is only this one old woman who by some peculiarity of constitution or some accident of occupation has managed to survive this catastrophe . `` `` If there should be others , how can we hope to find them , George ? '' asked the lady . `` And yet I agree with you that we can not go back until we have tried . `` Getting out of the car and leaving it by the curb , we walked with some difficulty along the crowded pavement of King William Street and entered the open door of a large insurance office . It was a corner house , and we chose it as commanding a view in every direction . Ascending the stair , we passed through what I suppose to have been the board-room , for eight elderly men were seated round a long table in the centre of it . The high window was open and we all stepped out upon the balcony . From it we could see the crowded city streets radiating in every direction , while below us the road was black from side to side with the tops of the motionless taxis . All , or nearly all , had their heads pointed outwards , showing how the terrified men of the city had at the last moment made a vain endeavor to rejoin their families in the suburbs or the country . Here and there amid the humbler cabs towered the great brass-spangled motor-car of some wealthy magnate , wedged hopelessly among the dammed stream of arrested traffic . Just beneath us there was such a one of great size and luxurious appearance , with its owner , a fat old man , leaning out , half his gross body through the window , and his podgy hand , gleaming with diamonds , outstretched as he urged his chauffeur to make a last effort to break through the press.A dozen motor-buses towered up like islands in this flood , the passengers who crowded the roofs lying all huddled together and across each others ' laps like a child 's toys in a nursery . On a broad lamp pedestal in the centre of the roadway , a burly