the surpassing merits of the blessed Paul your sin-stained soul should gain a way into paradise , I trust that you will not forget that intercession which you have promised . Bear in mind too , that it is Herward the bailiff for whom you pray , and not Herward the sheriff , who is my uncle 's son . Now , Thomas , I pray you dispatch , for we have a long ride before us and sun has already set . `` Alleyne gazed upon the scene -- -the portly velvet-clad official , the knot of hard-faced archers with their hands to the bridles of their horses , the thief with his arms trussed back and his doublet turned down upon his shoulders . By the side of the track the old dame was standing , fastening her red whimple once more round her head . Even as he looked one of the archers drew his sword with a sharp whirr of steel and stept up to the lost man . The clerk hurried away in horror ; but , ere he had gone many paces , he heard a sudden , sullen thump , with a choking , whistling sound at the end of it . A minute later the bailiff and four of his men rode past him on their journey back to Southampton , the other two having been chosen as grave-diggers . As they passed Alleyne saw that one of the men was wiping his sword-blade upon the mane of his horse . A deadly sickness came over him at the sight , and sitting down by the wayside he burst out weeping , with his nerves all in a jangle . It was a terrible world thought he , and it was hard to know which were the most to be dreaded , the knaves or the men of the law.The night had already fallen , and the moon was shining between the rifts of ragged , drifting clouds , before Alleyne Edricson , footsore and weary from the unwonted exercise , found himself in front of the forest inn which stood upon the outskirts of Lyndhurst . The building was long and low , standing back a little from the road , with two flambeaux blazing on either side of the door as a welcome to the traveller . From one window there thrust forth a long pole with a bunch of greenery tied to the end of it -- -a sign that liquor was to be sold within . As Alleyne walked up to it he perceived that it was rudely fashioned out of beams of wood , with twinkling lights all over where the glow from within shone through the chinks . The roof was poor and thatched ; but in strange contrast to it there ran all along under the eaves a line of wooden shields , most gorgeously painted with chevron , bend , and saltire , and every heraldic device . By the door a horse stood tethered , the ruddy glow beating strongly upon his brown head and patient eyes , while his body stood back in the shadow.Alleyne stood still in the roadway for a few minutes reflecting upon what he should do . It was , he knew , only a few miles further to Minstead , where his brother dwelt . On the other hand , he had never seen this brother since childhood , and the reports which had come to his ears concerning him were seldom to his advantage . By all accounts he was a hard and a bitter man.It might be an evil start to come to his door so late and claim the shelter of his roof . Better to sleep here at this inn , and then travel on to Minstead in the morning . If his brother would take him in , well and good.He would bide with him for a time and do what he might to serve him . If , on the other hand , he should have hardened his heart against him , he could only go on his way and do the best he might by his skill as a craftsman and a scrivener . At the end of a year he would be free to return to the cloisters , for such had been his father 's bequest . A monkish upbringing , one year in the world after the age of twenty , and then a free selection one way or the other -- -it was a strange course which had been marked out for him . Such as it was , however , he had no choice but to follow it , and if he were to begin by making a friend of his brother he had best wait until morning before he knocked at his dwelling.The rude plank door was ajar , but as Alleyne approached it there came from within such a gust of rough laughter and clatter of tongues that he stood irresolute upon the threshold . Summoning courage , however , and reflecting that it was a public dwelling , in which he had as much right as any other man , he pushed it open and stepped into the common room.Though it was an autumn evening and somewhat warm , a huge fire of heaped billets of wood crackled and sparkled in a broad , open grate , some of the smoke escaping up a rude chimney , but the greater part rolling out into the room , so that the air was thick with it , and a man coming from without could scarce catch his breath . On this fire a great cauldron bubbled and simmered , giving forth a rich and promising smell . Seated round it were a dozen or so folk , of all ages and conditions , who set up such a shout as Alleyne entered that he stood peering at them through the smoke , uncertain what this riotous greeting might portend . `` A rouse ! A rouse ! '' cried one rough looking fellow in a tattered jerkin . `` One more round of mead or ale and the score to the last comer . `` `` 'T is the law of the 'Pied Merlin , ' '' shouted another . `` Ho there , Dame Eliza ! Here is fresh custom come to the house , and not a drain for the company . `` `` I will take your orders , gentles ; I will assuredly take your orders , '' the landlady answered , bustling in with her hands full of leathern drinking-cups . `` What is it that you drink , then ? Beer for the lads of the forest , mead for the gleeman , strong waters for the tinker , and wine for the rest . It is an old custom of the house , young sir . It has been the use at the 'Pied Merlin ' this many a year back that the company should drink to the health of the last comer . Is it your pleasure to humor it ? `` `` Why , good dame , '' said Alleyne , `` I would not offend the customs of your house , but it is only sooth when I say that my purse is a thin one . As far as two pence will go , however , I shall be right glad to do my part . `` `` Plainly said and bravely spoken , my suckling friar , '' roared a deep voice , and a heavy hand fell upon Alleyne 's shoulder . Looking up , he saw beside him his former cloister companion the renegade monk , Hordle John . `` By the thorn of Glastonbury ! ill days are coming upon Beaulieu , '' said he . `` Here they have got rid in one day of the only two men within their walls -- -for I have had mine eyes upon thee , youngster , and I know that for all thy baby-face there is the making of a man in thee . Then there is the Abbot , too . I am no friend of his , nor he of mine ; but he has warm blood in his veins . He is the only man left among them . The others , what are they ? `` `` They are holy men , '' Alleyne answered gravely . `` Holy men ? Holy cabbages ! Holy bean-pods ! What do they do but live and suck in sustenance and grow fat ? If that be holiness , I could show you hogs in this forest who are fit to head the calendar . Think you it was for such a life that this good arm was fixed upon my shoulder , or that head placed upon your neck ? There is work in the world , man , and it is not by hiding behind stone walls that we shall do it . `` `` Why , then , did you join the brothers ? '' asked Alleyne . `` A fair enough question ; but it is as fairly answered . I joined them because Margery Alspaye , of Bolder , married Crooked Thomas of Ringwood , and left a certain John of Hordle in the cold , for that he was a ranting , roving blade who was not to be trusted in wedlock . That was why , being fond and hot-headed , I left the world ; and that is why , having had time to take thought , I am right glad to find myself back in it once more . Ill betide the day that ever I took off my yeoman 's jerkin to put on the white gown ! `` Whilst he was speaking the landlady came in again , bearing a broad platter , upon which stood all the beakers and flagons charged to the brim with the brown ale or the ruby wine . Behind her came a maid with a high pile of wooden plates , and a great sheaf of spoons , one of which she handed round to each of the travellers . Two of the company , who were dressed in the weather-stained green doublet of foresters , lifted the big pot off the fire , and a third , with a huge pewter ladle , served out a portion of steaming collops to each guest . Alleyne bore his share and his ale-mug away with him to a retired trestle in the corner , where he could sup in peace and watch the strange scene , which was so different to those silent and well-ordered meals to which he was accustomed.The room was not unlike a stable . The low ceiling , smoke-blackened and dingy , was pierced by several square trap-doors with rough-hewn ladders leading up to them . The walls of bare unpainted planks were studded here and there with great wooden pins , placed at irregular intervals and heights , from which hung over-tunics , wallets , whips , bridles , and saddles . Over the fireplace were suspended six or seven shields of wood , with coats-of-arms rudely daubed upon them , which showed by their varying degrees of smokiness and dirt that they had been placed there at different periods . There was no furniture , save a single long dresser covered with coarse crockery , and a number of wooden benches and trestles , the legs of which sank deeply into the soft clay floor , while the only light , save that of the fire , was furnished by three torches stuck in sockets on the wall , which flickered and crackled , giving forth a strong resinous odor . All this was novel and