should old man Challenger not be right ? '' At which direct defiance the stubborn sneer would reappear upon Professor Summerlee 's face , and he would sit , shaking his sardonic head in unsympathetic silence , behind the cloud of his briar-root pipe.So much , for the moment , for my two white companions , whose characters and limitations will be further exposed , as surely as my own , as this narrative proceeds . But already we have enrolled certain retainers who may play no small part in what is to come . The first is a gigantic negro named Zambo , who is a black Hercules , as willing as any horse , and about as intelligent . Him we enlisted at Para , on the recommendation of the steamship company , on whose vessels he had learned to speak a halting English.It was at Para also that we engaged Gomez and Manuel , two half-breeds from up the river , just come down with a cargo of redwood . They were swarthy fellows , bearded and fierce , as active and wiry as panthers . Both of them had spent their lives in those upper waters of the Amazon which we were about to explore , and it was this recommendation which had caused Lord John to engage them . One of them , Gomez , had the further advantage that he could speak excellent English . These men were willing to act as our personal servants , to cook , to row , or to make themselves useful in any way at a payment of fifteen dollars a month . Besides these , we had engaged three Mojo Indians from Bolivia , who are the most skilful at fishing and boat work of all the river tribes . The chief of these we called Mojo , after his tribe , and the others are known as Jose and Fernando . Three white men , then , two half-breeds , one negro , and three Indians made up the personnel of the little expedition which lay waiting for its instructions at Manaos before starting upon its singular quest.At last , after a weary week , the day had come and the hour . I ask you to picture the shaded sitting-room of the Fazenda St. Ignatio , two miles inland from the town of Manaos . Outside lay the yellow , brassy glare of the sunshine , with the shadows of the palm trees as black and definite as the trees themselves . The air was calm , full of the eternal hum of insects , a tropical chorus of many octaves , from the deep drone of the bee to the high , keen pipe of the mosquito . Beyond the veranda was a small cleared garden , bounded with cactus hedges and adorned with clumps of flowering shrubs , round which the great blue butterflies and the tiny humming-birds fluttered and darted in crescents of sparkling light . Within we were seated round the cane table , on which lay a sealed envelope . Inscribed upon it , in the jagged handwriting of Professor Challenger , were the words : -- - '' Instructions to Lord John Roxton and party . To be opened at Manaos upon July 15th , at 12 o'clock precisely . `` Lord John had placed his watch upon the table beside him . `` We have seven more minutes , '' said he . `` The old dear is very precise . `` Professor Summerlee gave an acid smile as he picked up the envelope in his gaunt hand . `` What can it possibly matter whether we open it now or in seven minutes ? '' said he . `` It is all part and parcel of the same system of quackery and nonsense , for which I regret to say that the writer is notorious . `` `` Oh , come , we must play the game accordin ' to rules , '' said Lord John . `` It 's old man Challenger 's show and we are here by his good will , so it would be rotten bad form if we did n't follow his instructions to the letter . `` `` A pretty business it is ! '' cried the Professor , bitterly . `` It struck me as preposterous in London , but I 'm bound to say that it seems even more so upon closer acquaintance . I do n't know what is inside this envelope , but , unless it is something pretty definite , I shall be much tempted to take the next down-river boat and catch the Bolivia at Para . After all , I have some more responsible work in the world than to run about disproving the assertions of a lunatic . Now , Roxton , surely it is time . `` `` Time it is , '' said Lord John . `` You can blow the whistle . '' He took up the envelope and cut it with his penknife . From it he drew a folded sheet of paper . This he carefully opened out and flattened on the table . It was a blank sheet . He turned it over . Again it was blank . We looked at each other in a bewildered silence , which was broken by a discordant burst of derisive laughter from Professor Summerlee . `` It is an open admission , '' he cried . `` What more do you want ? The fellow is a self-confessed humbug . We have only to return home and report him as the brazen imposter that he is . `` `` Invisible ink ! '' I suggested . `` I do n't think ! '' said Lord Roxton , holding the paper to the light . `` No , young fellah my lad , there is no use deceiving yourself . I 'll go bail for it that nothing has ever been written upon this paper . `` `` May I come in ? '' boomed a voice from the veranda.The shadow of a squat figure had stolen across the patch of sunlight . That voice ! That monstrous breadth of shoulder ! We sprang to our feet with a gasp of astonishment as Challenger , in a round , boyish straw-hat with a colored ribbon -- -Challenger , with his hands in his jacket-pockets and his canvas shoes daintily pointing as he walked -- -appeared in the open space before us . He threw back his head , and there he stood in the golden glow with all his old Assyrian luxuriance of beard , all his native insolence of drooping eyelids and intolerant eyes . `` I fear , '' said he , taking out his watch , `` that I am a few minutes too late . When I gave you this envelope I must confess that I had never intended that you should open it , for it had been my fixed intention to be with you before the hour . The unfortunate delay can be apportioned between a blundering pilot and an intrusive sandbank . I fear that it has given my colleague , Professor Summerlee , occasion to blaspheme . `` `` I am bound to say , sir , '' said Lord John , with some sternness of voice , `` that your turning up is a considerable relief to us , for our mission seemed to have come to a premature end . Even now I ca n't for the life of me understand why you should have worked it in so extraordinary a manner . `` Instead of answering , Professor Challenger entered , shook hands with myself and Lord John , bowed with ponderous insolence to Professor Summerlee , and sank back into a basket-chair , which creaked and swayed beneath his weight . `` Is all ready for your journey ? '' he asked . `` We can start to-morrow . `` `` Then so you shall . You need no chart of directions now , since you will have the inestimable advantage of my own guidance . From the first I had determined that I would myself preside over your investigation . The most elaborate charts would , as you will readily admit , be a poor substitute for my own intelligence and advice . As to the small ruse which I played upon you in the matter of the envelope , it is clear that , had I told you all my intentions , I should have been forced to resist unwelcome pressure to travel out with you . `` `` Not from me , sir ! '' exclaimed Professor Summerlee , heartily . `` So long as there was another ship upon the Atlantic . `` Challenger waved him away with his great hairy hand . `` Your common sense will , I am sure , sustain my objection and realize that it was better that I should direct my own movements and appear only at the exact moment when my presence was needed . That moment has now arrived . You are in safe hands . You will not now fail to reach your destination . From henceforth I take command of this expedition , and I must ask you to complete your preparations to-night , so that we may be able to make an early start in the morning . My time is of value , and the same thing may be said , no doubt , in a lesser degree of your own . I propose , therefore , that we push on as rapidly as possible , until I have demonstrated what you have come to see . `` Lord John Roxton has chartered a large steam launch , the Esmeralda , which was to carry us up the river . So far as climate goes , it was immaterial what time we chose for our expedition , as the temperature ranges from seventy-five to ninety degrees both summer and winter , with no appreciable difference in heat . In moisture , however , it is otherwise ; from December to May is the period of the rains , and during this time the river slowly rises until it attains a height of nearly forty feet above its low-water mark . It floods the banks , extends in great lagoons over a monstrous waste of country , and forms a huge district , called locally the Gapo , which is for the most part too marshy for foot-travel and too shallow for boating . About June the waters begin to fall , and are at their lowest at October or November . Thus our expedition was at the time of the dry season , when the great river and its tributaries were more or less in a normal condition.The current of the river is a slight one , the drop being not greater than eight inches in a mile . No stream could be more convenient for navigation , since the prevailing wind is south-east , and sailing boats may make a continuous progress to the Peruvian frontier , dropping down again with the current . In our own case the excellent engines of the Esmeralda could disregard the sluggish flow of the stream , and we made as rapid progress as if we were navigating a stagnant lake . For three days we steamed north-westwards up a stream which even here , a thousand miles from its mouth , was still so enormous that from its center the two banks were mere shadows upon the distant skyline . On the fourth day after leaving Manaos we turned into a tributary which at its mouth was little smaller than the main stream . It narrowed rapidly , however , and after two more