here I bide , while God gives me strength to lift a sword . `` `` And so say I ! '' shouted Sir Oliver , throwing his mace high into the air and catching it again by the handle . `` To your arms , men ! '' roared Sir Nigel . `` Shoot while you may , and then out sword , and let us live or die together ! `` Then up rose from the hill in the rugged Cantabrian valley a sound such as had not been heard in those parts before , nor was again , until the streams which rippled amid the rocks had been frozen by over four hundred winters and thawed by as many returning springs . Deep and full and strong it thundered down the ravine , the fierce battle-call of a warrior race , the last stern welcome to whoso should join with them in that world-old game where the stake is death . Thrice it swelled forth and thrice it sank away , echoing and reverberating amidst the crags . Then , with set faces , the Company rose up among the storm of stones , and looked down upon the thousands who sped swiftly up the slope against them . Horse and spear had been set aside , but on foot , with sword and battle-axe , their broad shields slung in front of them , the chivalry of Spain rushed to the attack.And now arose a struggle so fell , so long , so evenly sustained , that even now the memory of it is handed down amongst the Cantabrian mountaineers and the ill-omened knoll is still pointed out by fathers to their children as the `` Altura de los Inglesos , '' where the men from across the sea fought the great fight with the knights of the south . The last arrow was quickly shot , nor could the slingers hurl their stones , so close were friend and foe . From side to side stretched the thin line of the English , lightly armed and quick-footed , while against it stormed and raged the pressing throng of fiery Spaniards and of gallant Bretons . The clink of crossing sword-blades , the dull thudding of heavy blows , the panting and gasping of weary and wounded men , all rose together in a wild , long-drawn note , which swelled upwards to the ears of the wondering peasants who looked down from the edges of the cliffs upon the swaying turmoil of the battle beneath them . Back and forward reeled the leopard banner , now borne up the slope by the rush and weight of the onslaught , now pushing downwards again as Sir Nigel , Burley , and Black Simon with their veteran men-at arms , flung themselves madly into the fray . Alleyne , at his lord 's right hand , found himself swept hither and thither in the desperate struggle , exchanging savage thrusts one instant with a Spanish cavalier , and the next torn away by the whirl of men and dashed up against some new antagonist . To the right Sir Oliver , Aylward , Hordle John , and the bowmen of the Company fought furiously against the monkish Knights of Santiago , who were led up the hill by their prior -- -a great , deep-chested man , who wore a brown monastic habit over his suit of mail . Three archers he slew in three giant strokes , but Sir Oliver flung his arms round him , and the two , staggering and straining , reeled backwards and fell , locked in each other 's grasp , over the edge of the steep cliff which flanked the hill . In vain his knights stormed and raved against the thin line which barred their path : the sword of Aylward and the great axe of John gleamed in the forefront of the battle and huge jagged pieces of rock , hurled by the strong arms of the bowmen , crashed and hurtled amid their ranks . Slowly they gave back down the hill , the archers still hanging upon their skirts , with a long litter of writhing and twisted figures to mark the course which they had taken . At the same instant the Welshmen upon the left , led on by the Scotch earl , had charged out from among the rocks which sheltered them , and by the fury of their outfall had driven the Spaniards in front of them in headlong flight down the hill . In the centre only things seemed to be going ill with the defenders . Black Simon was down -- -dying , as he would wish to have died , like a grim old wolf in its lair with a ring of his slain around him . Twice Sir Nigel had been overborne , and twice Alleyne had fought over him until he had staggered to his feet once more . Burley lay senseless , stunned by a blow from a mace , and half of the men-at-arms lay littered upon the ground around him . Sir Nigel 's shield was broken , his crest shorn , his armor cut and smashed , and the vizor torn from his helmet ; yet he sprang hither and thither with light foot and ready hand , engaging two Bretons and a Spaniard at the same instant -- -thrusting , stooping , dashing in , springing out -- -while Alleyne still fought by his side , stemming with a handful of men the fierce tide which surged up against them . Yet it would have fared ill with them had not the archers from either side closed in upon the flanks of the attackers , and pressed them very slowly and foot by foot down the long slope , until they were on the plain once more , where their fellows were already rallying for a fresh assault.But terrible indeed was the cost at which the last had been repelled . Of the three hundred and seventy men who had held the crest , one hundred and seventy-two were left standing , many of whom were sorely wounded and weak from loss of blood . Sir Oliver Buttesthorn , Sir Richard Causton , Sir Simon Burley , Black Simon , Johnston , a hundred and fifty archers , and forty-seven men-at-arms had fallen , while the pitiless hail of stones was already whizzing and piping once more about their ears , threatening every instant to further reduce their numbers.Sir Nigel looked about him at his shattered ranks , and his face flushed with a soldier 's pride . `` By St . Paul ! '' he cried , `` I have fought in many a little bickering , but never one that I would be more loth to have missed than this . But you are wounded , Alleyne ? `` `` It is nought , '' answered his squire , stanching the blood which dripped from a sword-cut across his forehead . `` These gentlemen of Spain seem to be most courteous and worthy people . I see that they are already forming to continue this debate with us . Form up the bowmen two deep instead of four . By my faith ! some very brave men have gone from among us . Aylward , you are a trusty soldier , for all that your shoulder has never felt accolade , nor your heels worn the gold spurs . Do you take charge of the right ; I will hold the centre , and you , my Lord of Angus , the left. '' '' Ho ! for Sir Samkin Aylward ! '' cried a rough voice among the archers , and a roar of laughter greeted their new leader . `` By my hilt ! '' said the old bowman , `` I never thought to lead a wing in a stricken field . Stand close , camarades , for , by these finger-bones ! we must play the man this day . `` `` Come hither , Alleyne , '' said Sir Nigel , walking back to the edge of the cliff which formed the rear of their position . `` And you , Norbury , '' he continued , beckoning to the squire of Sir Oliver , `` do you also come here . `` The two squires hurried across to him , and the three stood looking down into the rocky ravine which lay a hundred and fifty feet beneath them . `` The prince must hear of how things are with us , '' said the knight . `` Another onfall we may withstand , but they are many and we are few , so that the time must come when we can no longer form line across the hill . Yet if help were brought us we might hold the crest until it comes . See yonder horses which stray among the rocks beneath us ? `` `` I see them , my fair lord . `` `` And see yonder path which winds along the hill upon the further end of the valley ? `` `` I see it . `` `` Were you on those horses , and riding up yonder track , steep and rough as it is , I think that ye might gain the valley beyond . Then on to the prince , and tell him how we fare . `` `` But , my fair lord , how can we hope to reach the horses ? '' asked Norbury . `` Ye can not go round to them , for they would be upon ye ere ye could come to them . Think ye that ye have heart enough to clamber down this cliff ? `` `` Had we but a rope . `` `` There is one here . It is but one hundred feet long , and for the rest ye must trust to God and to your fingers . Can you try it , Alleyne ? `` `` With all my heart , my dear lord , but how can I leave you in such a strait ? `` `` Nay , it is to serve me that ye go . And you , Norbury ? `` The silent squire said nothing , but he took up the rope , and , having examined it , he tied one end firmly round a projecting rock . Then he cast off his breast-plate , thigh pieces , and greaves , while Alleyne followed his example . `` Tell Chandos , or Calverley , or Knolles , should the prince have gone forward , '' cried Sir Nigel . `` Now may God speed ye , for ye are brave and worthy men . `` It was , indeed , a task which might make the heart of the bravest sink within him . The thin cord dangling down the face of the brown cliff seemed from above to reach little more than half-way down it . Beyond stretched the rugged rock , wet and shining , with a green tuft here and there thrusting out from it , but little sign of ridge or foothold . Far below the jagged points of the boulders bristled up , dark and menacing . Norbury tugged thrice with all his strength upon the cord , and then lowered himself over the edge , while a hundred anxious faces peered over at him as he slowly clambered downwards to the end of the rope . Twice he stretched out his foot , and twice he failed to reach the point at which he aimed , but even as he swung himself for a third effort a stone from a sling buzzed like a wasp from amid the rocks and struck