scowl , he swaggered off into the counting-house . There he shook hands with Tom , whom he had known for some months , and having made three successive offers -- -one to stand immediately an unlimited quantity of champagne , a second to play him five hundred up for anything he would name , and a third to lay a tenner for him at 7 to 4 on Amelia for the Oaks -- -all of which offers were declined with thanks -- -he bowed himself out , leaving a vague memory of smiles , shirt collars , and gaiters in the minds of the awe-struck Clerks.Whatever an impartial judge might think of the means whereby Major Tobias Clutterbuck had successfully screwed a thousand pounds out of the firm of Girdlestone , it is quite certain that that gentleman 's seasoned conscience did not reproach him in the least degree . On the contrary , his whole being seemed saturated and impregnated with the wildest hilarity and delight . Twice in less than a hundred yards , he was compelled to stop and lean upon his cane owing to the breathlessness which supervened upon his attempts to smother the delighted chuckles which came surging up from the inmost recesses of his capacious frame . At the second halt he wriggled his hand inside his tight-breasted coat , and after as many contortions as though he were about to shed that garment as a snake does its skin , he produced once more the little fat pocket-book . From it he extracted the cheque and looked it over lovingly . Then he hailed a passing hansom . `` Drive to the Capital and Counties Bank , '' he said . It had struck him that since the firm was in a shaky state he had better draw the money as soon as possible.In the bank a gloomy-looking cashier took the cheque and stared at it somewhat longer than the occasion seemed to demand . It was but a few minutes , yet it appeared a very long time to the major . `` How will you have it ? '' he asked at last , in a mournful voice . It tends to make a man cynical when he spends his days in handling untold riches while his wife and six children are struggling to make both ends meet at home . `` A hunthred in gold and the rest in notes , '' said the major , with a sigh of relief.The cashier counted and handed over a thick packet of crisp rustling paper and a little pile of shining sovereigns . The major stowed away the first in the pocket-book and the latter in his trouser pockets . Then he swaggered out with a great increase of pomposity and importance , and ordered his cabman to drive to Kennedy Place.Von Baumser was sitting in the major 's campaigning chair , smoking his china-bowled pipe and gazing dreamily at the long blue wreaths . Times had been bad with the comrades of late , as the German 's seedy appearance sufficiently testified . His friends in Germany had ceased to forward his small remittance , and Endermann 's office , in which he had been employed , had given him notice that for a time they could dispense with his services . He had been spending the whole afternoon in perusing the long list of `` wanteds '' in theDaily Telegraph , and his ink-stained forefinger showed the perseverance with which he had been answering every advertisement that could possibly apply to him . A pile of addressed envelopes lay upon the table , and it was only the uncertainty of his finances and the fact that the humble penny stamp mounts into shillings when frequently employed , that prevented him from increasing the number of his applications . He looked up and uttered a word of guttural greeting as his companion came striding in . `` Get out of this , '' the major said abruptly . `` Get away into the bedroom. '' '' Potztausand ! Vot is it then ? '' cried the astonished Teuton . `` Out with you ! I want this room to meself . `` Von Baumser shrugged his shoulders and lumbered off like a good-natured plantigrade , closing the door behind him.When his companion had disappeared the major proceeded to lay out all his notes upon the table , overlapping each other , but still so arranged that every separate one was visible . He then built in the centre ten little golden columns in a circle , each consisting of ten sovereigns , until the whole presented the appearance of a metallic Stonehenge upon a plain of bank notes . This done , he cocked his head on one side , like a fat and very ruddy turkey , and contemplated his little arrangement with much pride and satisfaction.Solitary delight soon becomes wearisome , however , so the veteran summoned his companion . The Teuton was so dumbfounded by this display of wealth , that he was bereft for a time of all faculty of speech , and could only stare open-mouthed at the table . At last he extended a fore-finger and thumb and rubbed a five pound note between them , as though to convince himself of its reality , after which he began to gyrate round the table in a sort of war dance , never taking his eyes from the heap of influence in front of him . `` Mein Gott ! '' he exclaimed , `` Gnadiger Vater ! Ach Himmel ! Was fur eine Schatze ! Donnerwetter ! '' und a thousand other cacophonous expressions of satisfaction and amazement.When the old soldier had sufficiently enjoyed the lively emotion which showed itself on every feature of the German 's countenance , he picked up the notes and locked them in his desk together with half the gold . The other fifty pounds he returned into his pocket . `` Come on ! '' he said to his companion abruptly . `` Come vere ? Vat is it ? `` `` Come on ! '' roared the major irascibly . `` What d 'ye want to stand asking questions for ? Put on your hat and come . `` The major had retained the cab at the door , and the two jumped into it . `` Drive to Verdi 's Restaurant , '' he said to the driver.When they arrived at that aristocratic and expensive establishment , the soldier ordered the best dinner for two that money could procure . `` Have it riddy in two hours sharp , '' he said to the manager . `` None of your half-and-half wines , mind ! We want the rale thing , and , be ged ! we can tell the difference ! `` Having left the manager much impressed , the two friends set out for a ready-made clothing establishment . `` I wo n't come in , '' the major said , slipping ten sovereigns into Von Baumser 's hand . `` Just you go in and till them ye want the best suit o ' clothes they can give you . They 've a good seliction there , I know . `` `` Gott in Himmel ! '' cried the amazed German . `` But , my dear vriend , you can not vait in the street . Come in mit me . `` `` No , I 'll wait , '' the old soldier answered . `` They might think I was paying for the clothes if I came in . `` `` Well , but so you -- - '' '' Eh , would ye ? '' roared the major , raising his cane , and Von Baumser disappeared precipitately into the shop.When he emerged once more at the end of twenty minutes , he was attired in an elegant and close-fitting suit of heather tweed . The pair then made successive visits to a shoe-maker , a hatter , and a draper , with the result that Von Baumser developed patent leather boots , a jaunty brown hat , and a pair of light yellow gloves . By the end of their walk there seemed nothing left of the original Von Baumser except a tawny beard , and an expression of hopeless and overpowering astonishment.Having effected this transformation , the friends retraced their steps to Verdi 's and did full justice to the spread awaiting them , after which the old soldier won the heart of the establishment by bestowing largess upon every one who came in his way . As to the further adventures of these two Bohemians , it would be as well perhaps to draw a veil over them . Suffice it that , about two in the morning , the worthy Mrs. Robins was awakened by a stentorian voice in the street below demanding to know `` Was ist das Deutsche Vaterland ? '' -- -a somewhat vexed question which the owner of the said voice was propounding to the solitary lamp-post of Kennedy Place . On descending the landlady discovered that the author of this disturbance was a fashionably dressed gentleman , who , upon closer inspection , proved to her great surprise to be none other than the usually demure part proprietor of her fourth floor . As to the major , he walked in quietly the next day about twelve o'clock , looking as trim and neat as ever , but minus the balance of the fifty pounds , nor did he think fit ever to make any allusion to this some what heavy deficit.Major Tobias Clutterbuck had naturally reckoned that the longer he withheld this trump card of his the greater would be its effect when played . An obstacle appearing at the last moment produces more consternation than when a scheme is still in its infancy . It proved , however , that he had only just levied his blackmail in time , for within a couple of days of his interview with the head of the firm news arrived of the great discovery of diamonds among the Ural Mountains . The first intimation was received through the Central News Agency in the form of the following telegram : -- - '' Moscow , August22. -- -It is reported from Tobolsk that an important discovery of diamond fields has been made amongst the spurs of the Ural Mountains , at a point not very far from that city . They are said to have been found by an English geologist , who has exhibited many magnificent gems in proof of his assertion . These stones have been examined at Tobolsk , and are pronounced to be equal , if not superior , in quality to any found elsewhere . A company has been already formed for the purpose of purchasing the land and working the mines . `` Some days afterwards there came a Reuter 's telegram giving fuller details . `` With regard to the diamond fields near Tobolsk , '' it said , `` there is every reason to believe that they are of great , and possibly unsurpassed , wealth . There is no question now as to their authenticity , since their discoverer proves to be an English gentleman of high character , and his story is corroborated by villagers from this district who have dug up stones for themselves . The Government contemplate buying out the company and taking over the mines , which might be profitably worked by the forced labour of political prisoners on a system similar to that adopted in the salt mines of Siberia . The discovery is universally regarded as one which has materially increased the internal resources of the country , and there is some talk of the presentation of a