that a tall , thin man , with dark gingery hair , a few seats in front of me , was also upon his feet . He glared back at me with hard angry eyes , but I refused to give way . `` I will go , Mr. Chairman , '' I kept repeating over and over again. '' Name ! Name ! '' cried the audience . `` My name is Edward Dunn Malone . I am the reporter of the Daily Gazette . I claim to be an absolutely unprejudiced witness . `` `` What is YOUR name , sir ? '' the chairman asked of my tall rival . `` I am Lord John Roxton . I have already been up the Amazon , I know all the ground , and have special qualifications for this investigation . `` `` Lord John Roxton 's reputation as a sportsman and a traveler is , of course , world-famous , '' said the chairman ; `` at the same time it would certainly be as well to have a member of the Press upon such an expedition . `` `` Then I move , '' said Professor Challenger , `` that both these gentlemen be elected , as representatives of this meeting , to accompany Professor Summerlee upon his journey to investigate and to report upon the truth of my statements . `` And so , amid shouting and cheering , our fate was decided , and I found myself borne away in the human current which swirled towards the door , with my mind half stunned by the vast new project which had risen so suddenly before it . As I emerged from the hall I was conscious for a moment of a rush of laughing students -- -down the pavement , and of an arm wielding a heavy umbrella , which rose and fell in the midst of them . Then , amid a mixture of groans and cheers , Professor Challenger 's electric brougham slid from the curb , and I found myself walking under the silvery lights of Regent Street , full of thoughts of Gladys and of wonder as to my future.Suddenly there was a touch at my elbow . I turned , and found myself looking into the humorous , masterful eyes of the tall , thin man who had volunteered to be my companion on this strange quest. '' Mr . Malone , I understand , '' said he . `` We are to be companions -- -what ? My rooms are just over the road , in the Albany . Perhaps you would have the kindness to spare me half an hour , for there are one or two things that I badly want to say to you . `` Lord John Roxton and I turned down Vigo Street together and through the dingy portals of the famous aristocratic rookery . At the end of a long drab passage my new acquaintance pushed open a door and turned on an electric switch . A number of lamps shining through tinted shades bathed the whole great room before us in a ruddy radiance . Standing in the doorway and glancing round me , I had a general impression of extraordinary comfort and elegance combined with an atmosphere of masculine virility . Everywhere there were mingled the luxury of the wealthy man of taste and the careless untidiness of the bachelor . Rich furs and strange iridescent mats from some Oriental bazaar were scattered upon the floor . Pictures and prints which even my unpractised eyes could recognize as being of great price and rarity hung thick upon the walls . Sketches of boxers , of ballet-girls , and of racehorses alternated with a sensuous Fragonard , a martial Girardet , and a dreamy Turner . But amid these varied ornaments there were scattered the trophies which brought back strongly to my recollection the fact that Lord John Roxton was one of the great all-round sportsmen and athletes of his day . A dark-blue oar crossed with a cherry-pink one above his mantel-piece spoke of the old Oxonian and Leander man , while the foils and boxing-gloves above and below them were the tools of a man who had won supremacy with each . Like a dado round the room was the jutting line of splendid heavy game-heads , the best of their sort from every quarter of the world , with the rare white rhinoceros of the Lado Enclave drooping its supercilious lip above them all.In the center of the rich red carpet was a black and gold Louis Quinze table , a lovely antique , now sacrilegiously desecrated with marks of glasses and the scars of cigar-stumps . On it stood a silver tray of smokables and a burnished spirit-stand , from which and an adjacent siphon my silent host proceeded to charge two high glasses . Having indicated an arm-chair to me and placed my refreshment near it , he handed me a long , smooth Havana . Then , seating himself opposite to me , he looked at me long and fixedly with his strange , twinkling , reckless eyes -- -eyes of a cold light blue , the color of a glacier lake.Through the thin haze of my cigar-smoke I noted the details of a face which was already familiar to me from many photographs -- -the strongly-curved nose , the hollow , worn cheeks , the dark , ruddy hair , thin at the top , the crisp , virile moustaches , the small , aggressive tuft upon his projecting chin . Something there was of Napoleon III. , something of Don Quixote , and yet again something which was the essence of the English country gentleman , the keen , alert , open-air lover of dogs and of horses . His skin was of a rich flower-pot red from sun and wind . His eyebrows were tufted and overhanging , which gave those naturally cold eyes an almost ferocious aspect , an impression which was increased by his strong and furrowed brow . In figure he was spare , but very strongly built -- -indeed , he had often proved that there were few men in England capable of such sustained exertions . His height was a little over six feet , but he seemed shorter on account of a peculiar rounding of the shoulders . Such was the famous Lord John Roxton as he sat opposite to me , biting hard upon his cigar and watching me steadily in a long and embarrassing silence . `` Well , '' said he , at last , `` we 've gone and done it , young fellah my lad . '' ( This curious phrase he pronounced as if it were all one word -- - '' young-fellah-me-lad . '' ) `` Yes , we 've taken a jump , you an ' me . I suppose , now , when you went into that room there was no such notion in your head -- -what ? `` `` No thought of it . `` `` The same here . No thought of it . And here we are , up to our necks in the tureen . Why , I 've only been back three weeks from Uganda , and taken a place in Scotland , and signed the lease and all . Pretty goin 's on -- -what ? How does it hit you ? `` `` Well , it is all in the main line of my business . I am a journalist on the Gazette . `` `` Of course -- -you said so when you took it on . By the way , I 've got a small job for you , if you 'll help me . `` `` With pleasure . `` `` Do n't mind takin ' a risk , do you ? `` `` What is the risk ? `` `` Well , it 's Ballinger -- -he 's the risk . You 've heard of him ? '' '' No . `` `` Why , young fellah , where HAVE you lived ? Sir John Ballinger is the best gentleman jock in the north country . I could hold him on the flat at my best , but over jumps he 's my master . Well , it 's an open secret that when he 's out of trainin ' he drinks hard -- -strikin ' an average , he calls it . He got delirium on Toosday , and has been ragin ' like a devil ever since . His room is above this . The doctors say that it is all up with the old dear unless some food is got into him , but as he lies in bed with a revolver on his coverlet , and swears he will put six of the best through anyone that comes near him , there 's been a bit of a strike among the serving-men . He 's a hard nail , is Jack , and a dead shot , too , but you ca n't leave a Grand National winner to die like that -- -what ? `` `` What do you mean to do , then ? '' I asked . `` Well , my idea was that you and I could rush him . He may be dozin ' , and at the worst he can only wing one of us , and the other should have him . If we can get his bolster-cover round his arms and then 'phone up a stomach-pump , we 'll give the old dear the supper of his life . `` It was a rather desperate business to come suddenly into one 's day 's work . I do n't think that I am a particularly brave man . I have an Irish imagination which makes the unknown and the untried more terrible than they are . On the other hand , I was brought up with a horror of cowardice and with a terror of such a stigma . I dare say that I could throw myself over a precipice , like the Hun in the history books , if my courage to do it were questioned , and yet it would surely be pride and fear , rather than courage , which would be my inspiration . Therefore , although every nerve in my body shrank from the whisky-maddened figure which I pictured in the room above , I still answered , in as careless a voice as I could command , that I was ready to go . Some further remark of Lord Roxton 's about the danger only made me irritable . `` Talking wo n't make it any better , '' said I . `` Come on . `` I rose from my chair and he from his . Then with a little confidential chuckle of laughter , he patted me two or three times on the chest , finally pushing me back into my chair . `` All right , sonny my lad -- -you 'll do , '' said he . I looked up in surprise . `` I saw after Jack Ballinger myself this mornin ' . He blew a hole in the skirt of my kimono , bless his shaky old hand , but we got a jacket on him , and he 's to be all right in a week . I say , young fellah , I hope you do n't mind -- -what ? You see , between you an ' me close-tiled , I look on this South American business as a mighty serious thing , and if I have a pal with me I want a man I can bank on . So I sized you down , and I 'm