think best . Now , the question is , what price would you ask for it ? We might be inclined to take it up , and at least look into it , if we could agree as to terms . ' He tried to speak in a cool , careless way , but his eyes were shining with excitement and greed . `` 'Why , as to that , gentlemen , ' I answered , trying also to be cool , but feeling as excited as he did , 'there is only one bargain which a man in my position can make . I shall want you to help me to my freedom , and to help my three companions to theirs . We shall then take you into partnership , and give you a fifth share to divide between you. ' '' 'Hum ! ' said he . 'A fifth share ! That is not very tempting . ' '' 'It would come to fifty thousand apiece , ' said I . `` 'But how can we gain your freedom ? You know very well that you ask an impossibility . ' '' 'Nothing of the sort , ' I answered . 'I have thought it all out to the last detail . The only bar to our escape is that we can get no boat fit for the voyage , and no provisions to last us for so long a time . There are plenty of little yachts and yawls at Calcutta or Madras which would serve our turn well . Do you bring one over . We shall engage to get aboard her by night , and if you will drop us on any part of the Indian coast you will have done your part of the bargain . ' '' 'If there were only one , ' he said . `` 'None or all , ' I answered . 'We have sworn it . The four of us must always act together . ' '' 'You see , Morstan , ' said he , 'Small is a man of his word . He does not flinch from his friend . I think we may very well trust him . ' '' 'It 's a dirty business , ' the other answered . 'Yet , as you say , the money would save our commissions handsomely . ' '' 'Well , Small , ' said the major , 'we must , I suppose , try and meet you . We must first , of course , test the truth of your story . Tell me where the box is hid , and I shall get leave of absence and go back to India in the monthly relief-boat to inquire into the affair . ' '' 'Not so fast , ' said I , growing colder as he got hot . 'I must have the consent of my three comrades . I tell you that it is four or none with us. ' '' 'Nonsense ! ' he broke in . 'What have three black fellows to do with our agreement ? ' '' 'Black or blue , ' said I , 'they are in with me , and we all go together . ' '' Well , the matter ended by a second meeting , at which Mahomet Singh , Abdullah Khan , and Dost Akbar were all present . We talked the matter over again , and at last we came to an arrangement . We were to provide both the officers with charts of the part of the Agra fort and mark the place in the wall where the treasure was hid . Major Sholto was to go to India to test our story . If he found the box he was to leave it there , to send out a small yacht provisioned for a voyage , which was to lie off Rutland Island , and to which we were to make our way , and finally to return to his duties . Captain Morstan was then to apply for leave of absence , to meet us at Agra , and there we were to have a final division of the treasure , he taking the major 's share as well as his own . All this we sealed by the most solemn oaths that the mind could think or the lips utter . I sat up all night with paper and ink , and by the morning I had the two charts all ready , signed with the sign of four , -- -that is , of Abdullah , Akbar , Mahomet , and myself . `` Well , gentlemen , I weary you with my long story , and I know that my friend Mr. Jones is impatient to get me safely stowed in chokey . I 'll make it as short as I can . The villain Sholto went off to India , but he never came back again . Captain Morstan showed me his name among a list of passengers in one of the mail-boats very shortly afterwards . His uncle had died , leaving him a fortune , and he had left the army , yet he could stoop to treat five men as he had treated us . Morstan went over to Agra shortly afterwards , and found , as we expected , that the treasure was indeed gone . The scoundrel had stolen it all , without carrying out one of the conditions on which we had sold him the secret . From that day I lived only for vengeance . I thought of it by day and I nursed it by night . It became an overpowering , absorbing passion with me . I cared nothing for the law , -- -nothing for the gallows . To escape , to track down Sholto , to have my hand upon his throat , -- -that was my one thought . Even the Agra treasure had come to be a smaller thing in my mind than the slaying of Sholto . `` Well , I have set my mind on many things in this life , and never one which I did not carry out . But it was weary years before my time came . I have told you that I had picked up something of medicine . One day when Dr. Somerton was down with a fever a little Andaman Islander was picked up by a convict-gang in the woods . He was sick to death , and had gone to a lonely place to die . I took him in hand , though he was as venomous as a young snake , and after a couple of months I got him all right and able to walk . He took a kind of fancy to me then , and would hardly go back to his woods , but was always hanging about my hut . I learned a little of his lingo from him , and this made him all the fonder of me . `` Tonga -- -for that was his name -- -was a fine boatman , and owned a big , roomy canoe of his own . When I found that he was devoted to me and would do anything to serve me , I saw my chance of escape . I talked it over with him . He was to bring his boat round on a certain night to an old wharf which was never guarded , and there he was to pick me up . I gave him directions to have several gourds of water and a lot of yams , cocoa-nuts , and sweet potatoes . `` He was stanch and true , was little Tonga . No man ever had a more faithful mate . At the night named he had his boat at the wharf . As it chanced , however , there was one of the convict-guard down there , -- -a vile Pathan who had never missed a chance of insulting and injuring me . I had always vowed vengeance , and now I had my chance . It was as if fate had placed him in my way that I might pay my debt before I left the island . He stood on the bank with his back to me , and his carbine on his shoulder . I looked about for a stone to beat out his brains with , but none could I see . Then a queer thought came into my head and showed me where I could lay my hand on a weapon . I sat down in the darkness and unstrapped my wooden leg . With three long hops I was on him . He put his carbine to his shoulder , but I struck him full , and knocked the whole front of his skull in . You can see the split in the wood now where I hit him . We both went down together , for I could not keep my balance , but when I got up I found him still lying quiet enough . I made for the boat , and in an hour we were well out at sea . Tonga had brought all his earthly possessions with him , his arms and his gods . Among other things , he had a long bamboo spear , and some Andaman cocoa-nut matting , with which I made a sort of sail . For ten days we were beating about , trusting to luck , and on the eleventh we were picked up by a trader which was going from Singapore to Jiddah with a cargo of Malay pilgrims . They were a rum crowd , and Tonga and I soon managed to settle down among them . They had one very good quality : they let you alone and asked no questions . `` Well , if I were to tell you all the adventures that my little chum and I went through , you would not thank me , for I would have you here until the sun was shining . Here and there we drifted about the world , something always turning up to keep us from London . All the time , however , I never lost sight of my purpose . I would dream of Sholto at night . A hundred times I have killed him in my sleep . At last , however , some three or four years ago , we found ourselves in England . I had no great difficulty in finding where Sholto lived , and I set to work to discover whether he had realized the treasure , or if he still had it . I made friends with someone who could help me , -- -I name no names , for I do n't want to get any one else in a hole , -- -and I soon found that he still had the jewels . Then I tried to get at him in many ways ; but he was pretty sly , and had always two prize-fighters , besides his sons and his khitmutgar , on guard over him . `` One day , however , I got word that he was dying . I hurried at once to the garden , mad that he should slip out of my clutches like that , and , looking through the window , I saw him lying in his bed , with his sons on each side of him . I 'd have come through and taken my chance with the three of them , only even as I looked at him his jaw dropped , and I knew that he was gone . I got into his room that same night , though , and I searched his papers to see if