free . I ca n't help fearing that it is all a dream , and that I shall wake up to find myself pouring out Ezra Girdlestone 's coffee , or listening to Mr. Girdlestone as he reads the morning quotations . `` The elder woman stroked the girl 's hand caressingly with her soft , motherly palm . `` Do n't think about it , '' she murmured . `` No , do n't think about it , '' echoed the doctor . `` My wife is quite right . Do n't think about it . But , dear me , what a job I had to persuade your guardian to let you go . I should have given it up in despair -- -I really should -- -if I had not known that you had set your heart upon it . `` `` Oh , how good you both are to me ! '' cried the girl , in a pretty little gush of gratitude . `` Pooh , pooh , Kate ! But as to Girdlestone , he is perfectly right . If I had you I should keep you fast to myself , I promise you . Eh , Matilda ? `` `` That we would , George . `` `` Perfect tyrants , both of us . Eh , Matilda ? `` `` Yes , George . `` `` I am afraid that I am not very useful in a household , '' said the girl . `` I was too young to look after things for poor papa . Mr. Girdlestone , of course , has a housekeeper of his own . I read theFinancial Newsto him after dinner every day , and I know all about stock and Consols and those American railways which are perpetually rising and falling . One of them went wrong last week , and Ezra swore , and Mr. Girdlestone said that the Lord chastens those whom He loves . He did not seem to like being chastened a bit though . But how delightful this is ! It is like living in another world . `` The girl was a pretty figure as she stood in the window , tall , lithe , and graceful , with the long soft curves of budding womanhood . Her face was sweet rather than beautiful , but an artist would have revelled in the delicate strength of the softly rounded chin , and the quick bright play of her expression . Her hair , of a deep rich brown , with a bronze shimmer where a sunbeam lay athwart it , swept back in those thick luxuriant coils which are the unfailing index of a strong womanly nature . Her deep blue eyes danced with life and light , while her slightlyretroussenose and her sensitive smiling mouth all spoke of gentle good humour . From her sunny face to the dainty little shoe which peeped from under the trim black skirt , she was an eminently pleasant object to look upon . So thought the passers-by as they glanced up at the great bow window , and so , too , thought a young gentleman who had driven up to the hotel door , and who now bounded up the steps and into the room . He was enveloped in a long shaggy ulster , which stretched down to his ankles , and he wore a velvet cap trimmed with silver stuck carelessly on the back of his powerful yellow curled head . `` Here is the boy ! '' cried his mother gaily . `` How are you , mam dear ? '' he cried , stooping over her to kiss her . `` How are you , dad ? Good morning , Cousin Kate . You must come down and wish us luck . What a blessing that it is pretty warm . It is miserable for the spectators when there is an east wind . What do you think of it , dad ? `` `` I think you are an unnatural young renegade to play against your mother country , '' said the sturdy doctor . `` Oh , come , dad ! I was born in Scotland , and I belong to a Scotch club.Surely that is good enough . `` `` I hope you lose , then . `` `` We are very likely to . Atkinson , of the West of Scotland , has strained his leg , and we shall have to play Blair , of the Institution , at full back -- -not so good a man by a long way . The odds are five to four on the English this morning . They are said to be the very strongest lot that ever played in an International match . I have brought a cab with me , so the moment you are ready we can start . `` There were others besides the students who were excited about the coming struggle . All Edinburgh was in a ferment . Football is , and always has been , the national game of Scotland among those who affect violent exercise , while golf takes its place with the more sedately inclined . There is no game so fitted to appeal to a hardy and active people as that composite exercise prescribed by the Rugby Union , in which fifteen men pit strength , speed , endurance , and every manly attribute they possess in a prolonged struggle against fifteen antagonists . There is no room for mere knack or trickery . It is a fierce personal contest in which the ball is the central rallying point . That ball may be kicked , pushed , or carried ; it may be forced onwards in any conceivable manner towards the enemy 's goal . The fleet of foot may seize it and by superior speed thread their way through the ranks of their opponents . The heavy of frame may crush down all opposition by dead weight . The hardiest and most enduring must win.Even matches between prominent local clubs excite much interest in Edinburgh and attract crowds of spectators . How much more then when the pick of the manhood of Scotland were to try their strength against the very cream of the players from the South of the Tweed . The roads which converged on the Raeburn Place Grounds , on which the match was to be played , were dark with thousands all wending their way in one direction . So thick was the moving mass that the carriage of the Dimsdale party had to go at a walk for the latter half of the journey , In spite of the objurgations of the driver , who , as a patriot , felt the responsibility which rested upon him in having one of the team in his charge , and the necessity there was for delivering him up by the appointed time . Many in the crowd recognized the young fellow and waved their hands to him or called out a few words of encouragement . Miss Kate Harston and even the doctor began to reflect some of the interest and excitement which showed itself on every face around them . The youth alone seemed to be unaffected by the general enthusiasm , and spent the time in endeavouring to explain the principles of the game to his fair companion , whose ignorance of it was comprehensive and astounding . `` You understand , '' he said , `` that there are fifteen players on each side . But it would not do for the whole of these fifteen men to play in a crowd , for , in that case , if the other side forced the ball past them , they would have nothing to fall back upon -- -no reserves , as it were . Therefore , as we play the game in Scotland , ten men are told off to play in a knot . They are picked for their weight , strength , and endurance . They are called the forwards , and are supposed to be always on the ball , following it everywhere , never stopping or tiring . They are opposed , of course , by the forwards of the other side . Now , immediately behind the forwards are the two quarter-backs . They should be very active fellows , good dodgers and fast runners . They never join in the very rough work , but they always follow on the outskirts of the forwards , and if the ball is forced past it is their duty to pick it up and make away with it like lightning . If they are very fast they may succeed in carrying it a long way before they are caught -- -'tackled , ' as we call it . It is their duty also to keep their eye on the quarter-backs of the enemy , and to tackle them if they get away . Behind them again are the two half-backs -- -or 'three-quarters , ' as they call them in England . I am one of them . They are supposed to be fast runners too , and a good deal of the tackling comes to their lot , for a good runner of the other side can often get past the quarters , and then the halves have got to bring him down . Behind the half-backs is a single man -- -the back . He is the last resource when all others are past . He should be a sure and long kicker , so as to get the ball away from the goal by that means -- -but you are not listening . `` `` Oh yes , I am , '' said Kate . As a matter of fact the great throng and the novel sights were distracting her so much that she found it hard to attend to her companion 's disquisition . `` You 'll understand it quickly enough when you see it , '' the student remarked cheerily . `` Here we are at the grounds . `` As he spoke the carriage rattled through a broad gateway into a large open grassy space , with a great pavilion at one side of it and a staked enclosure about two hundred yards long and a hundred broad , with a goal-post at each end . This space was marked out by gaily coloured flags , and on every side of it , pressing against the barrier the whole way round , was an enormous crowd , twenty and thirty deep , with others occupying every piece of rising ground or coign of vantage behind them . The most moderate computation would place the number of spectators at fifteen thousand . At one side there was a line of cabs in the background , and thither the carriage of the Dimsdales drove , while Tom rushed off with his bag to the pavilion to change.It was high time to do so , for just as the carriage took up its position a hoarse roar burst from the great multitude , and was taken up again and again . It was a welcome to the English team , which had just appeared upon the ground . There they were , clad in white knickerbockers and jerseys , with a single red rose embroidered upon their breasts ; as gallant-looking a set of young fellows as the whole world could produce . Tall , square-shouldered , straight-limbed , as active as kittens and as powerful as young bullocks , it was clear that they would take a lot of beating . They were the pick of the University and London clubs , with a few players from the northern counties ; not a man among them whose name