it , and our Indians remained motionless , as if they had been turned to bronze , listening intently with expressions of terror upon their faces . `` What is it , then ? '' I asked . `` Drums , '' said Lord John , carelessly ; `` war drums . I have heard them before . `` `` Yes , sir , war drums , '' said Gomez , the half-breed . `` Wild Indians , bravos , not mansos ; they watch us every mile of the way ; kill us if they can . `` `` How can they watch us ? '' I asked , gazing into the dark , motionless void.The half-breed shrugged his broad shoulders . `` The Indians know . They have their own way . They watch us . They talk the drum talk to each other . Kill us if they can . `` By the afternoon of that day -- -my pocket diary shows me that it was Tuesday , August 18th -- -at least six or seven drums were throbbing from various points . Sometimes they beat quickly , sometimes slowly , sometimes in obvious question and answer , one far to the east breaking out in a high staccato rattle , and being followed after a pause by a deep roll from the north . There was something indescribably nerve-shaking and menacing in that constant mutter , which seemed to shape itself into the very syllables of the half-breed , endlessly repeated , `` We will kill you if we can . We will kill you if we can . '' No one ever moved in the silent woods . All the peace and soothing of quiet Nature lay in that dark curtain of vegetation , but away from behind there came ever the one message from our fellow-man . `` We will kill you if we can , '' said the men in the east . `` We will kill you if we can , '' said the men in the north.All day the drums rumbled and whispered , while their menace reflected itself in the faces of our colored companions . Even the hardy , swaggering half-breed seemed cowed . I learned , however , that day once for all that both Summerlee and Challenger possessed that highest type of bravery , the bravery of the scientific mind . Theirs was the spirit which upheld Darwin among the gauchos of the Argentine or Wallace among the head-hunters of Malaya . It is decreed by a merciful Nature that the human brain can not think of two things simultaneously , so that if it be steeped in curiosity as to science it has no room for merely personal considerations . All day amid that incessant and mysterious menace our two Professors watched every bird upon the wing , and every shrub upon the bank , with many a sharp wordy contention , when the snarl of Summerlee came quick upon the deep growl of Challenger , but with no more sense of danger and no more reference to drum-beating Indians than if they were seated together in the smoking-room of the Royal Society 's Club in St. James 's Street . Once only did they condescend to discuss them . `` Miranha or Amajuaca cannibals , '' said Challenger , jerking his thumb towards the reverberating wood . `` No doubt , sir , '' Summerlee answered . `` Like all such tribes , I shall expect to find them of poly-synthetic speech and of Mongolian type . `` `` Polysynthetic certainly , '' said Challenger , indulgently . `` I am not aware that any other type of language exists in this continent , and I have notes of more than a hundred . The Mongolian theory I regard with deep suspicion . `` `` I should have thought that even a limited knowledge of comparative anatomy would have helped to verify it , '' said Summerlee , bitterly.Challenger thrust out his aggressive chin until he was all beard and hat-rim . `` No doubt , sir , a limited knowledge would have that effect . When one 's knowledge is exhaustive , one comes to other conclusions . '' They glared at each other in mutual defiance , while all round rose the distant whisper , `` We will kill you -- -we will kill you if we can . `` That night we moored our canoes with heavy stones for anchors in the center of the stream , and made every preparation for a possible attack . Nothing came , however , and with the dawn we pushed upon our way , the drum-beating dying out behind us . About three o'clock in the afternoon we came to a very steep rapid , more than a mile long -- -the very one in which Professor Challenger had suffered disaster upon his first journey . I confess that the sight of it consoled me , for it was really the first direct corroboration , slight as it was , of the truth of his story . The Indians carried first our canoes and then our stores through the brushwood , which is very thick at this point , while we four whites , our rifles on our shoulders , walked between them and any danger coming from the woods . Before evening we had successfully passed the rapids , and made our way some ten miles above them , where we anchored for the night . At this point I reckoned that we had come not less than a hundred miles up the tributary from the main stream.It was in the early forenoon of the next day that we made the great departure . Since dawn Professor Challenger had been acutely uneasy , continually scanning each bank of the river . Suddenly he gave an exclamation of satisfaction and pointed to a single tree , which projected at a peculiar angle over the side of the stream . `` What do you make of that ? '' he asked . `` It is surely an Assai palm , '' said Summerlee. '' Exactly . It was an Assai palm which I took for my landmark . The secret opening is half a mile onwards upon the other side of the river . There is no break in the trees . That is the wonder and the mystery of it . There where you see light-green rushes instead of dark-green undergrowth , there between the great cotton woods , that is my private gate into the unknown . Push through , and you will understand . `` It was indeed a wonderful place . Having reached the spot marked by a line of light-green rushes , we poled out two canoes through them for some hundreds of yards , and eventually emerged into a placid and shallow stream , running clear and transparent over a sandy bottom . It may have been twenty yards across , and was banked in on each side by most luxuriant vegetation . No one who had not observed that for a short distance reeds had taken the place of shrubs , could possibly have guessed the existence of such a stream or dreamed of the fairyland beyond.For a fairyland it was -- -the most wonderful that the imagination of man could conceive . The thick vegetation met overhead , interlacing into a natural pergola , and through this tunnel of verdure in a golden twilight flowed the green , pellucid river , beautiful in itself , but marvelous from the strange tints thrown by the vivid light from above filtered and tempered in its fall . Clear as crystal , motionless as a sheet of glass , green as the edge of an iceberg , it stretched in front of us under its leafy archway , every stroke of our paddles sending a thousand ripples across its shining surface . It was a fitting avenue to a land of wonders . All sign of the Indians had passed away , but animal life was more frequent , and the tameness of the creatures showed that they knew nothing of the hunter . Fuzzy little black-velvet monkeys , with snow-white teeth and gleaming , mocking eyes , chattered at us as we passed . With a dull , heavy splash an occasional cayman plunged in from the bank . Once a dark , clumsy tapir stared at us from a gap in the bushes , and then lumbered away through the forest ; once , too , the yellow , sinuous form of a great puma whisked amid the brushwood , and its green , baleful eyes glared hatred at us over its tawny shoulder . Bird life was abundant , especially the wading birds , stork , heron , and ibis gathering in little groups , blue , scarlet , and white , upon every log which jutted from the bank , while beneath us the crystal water was alive with fish of every shape and color.For three days we made our way up this tunnel of hazy green sunshine . On the longer stretches one could hardly tell as one looked ahead where the distant green water ended and the distant green archway began . The deep peace of this strange waterway was unbroken by any sign of man . `` No Indian here . Too much afraid . Curupuri , '' said Gomez . `` Curupuri is the spirit of the woods , '' Lord John explained . `` It 's a name for any kind of devil . The poor beggars think that there is something fearsome in this direction , and therefore they avoid it . `` On the third day it became evident that our journey in the canoes could not last much longer , for the stream was rapidly growing more shallow . Twice in as many hours we stuck upon the bottom . Finally we pulled the boats up among the brushwood and spent the night on the bank of the river . In the morning Lord John and I made our way for a couple of miles through the forest , keeping parallel with the stream ; but as it grew ever shallower we returned and reported , what Professor Challenger had already suspected , that we had reached the highest point to which the canoes could be brought . We drew them up , therefore , and concealed them among the bushes , blazing a tree with our axes , so that we should find them again . Then we distributed the various burdens among us -- -guns , ammunition , food , a tent , blankets , and the rest -- -and , shouldering our packages , we set forth upon the more laborious stage of our journey.An unfortunate quarrel between our pepper-pots marked the outset of our new stage . Challenger had from the moment of joining us issued directions to the whole party , much to the evident discontent of Summerlee . Now , upon his assigning some duty to his fellow-Professor ( it was only the carrying of an aneroid barometer ) , the matter suddenly came to a head . `` May I ask , sir , '' said Summerlee , with vicious calm , `` in what capacity you take it upon yourself to issue these orders ? `` Challenger glared and bristled . `` I do it , Professor Summerlee , as leader of this expedition . `` `` I am compelled to tell you , sir , that I do not recognize you in that capacity. '' '' Indeed ! '' Challenger bowed with unwieldy sarcasm . `` Perhaps you would define my exact position . `` `` Yes , sir . You are a man whose veracity is upon trial ,