course , all up . Even when the Russian business proves to be a hoax , the price of stones will remain very low on account of these new fields . It is possible that we may sell our lot at some small profit but it wo n't be the royal road to a fortune that you prophesied , nor will it help the firm out of the rut into which you have shoved it . My only regret in leaving Africa like this is that that vermin Williams will have no one to prosecute him . My head is almost well now . `` This letter was a rude shock to the African merchant . Within a week of the receipt of it his son Ezra , gloomy and travel-stained , walked into the sanctum at Fenchurch Street and confirmed all the evil tidings by word of mouth . The old man was of too tough a fibre to break down completely , but his bony hands closed convulsively upon the arms of the chair , and a cold perspiration broke out upon his wrinkled forehead as he listened to such details as his son vouchsafed to afford him . `` You have your stones all safe , though ? '' he stammered out at last . `` They are in my box , at home , '' said Ezra , gloomy and morose , leaning against the white marble mantelpiece . `` The Lord knows what they are worth ! We 'll be lucky if we clear as much as they cost and a margin for my expenses and Langworthy 's . A broken head is all that I have got from your fine scheme . `` `` Who could foresee such a thing ? '' the old man said plaintively . He might have added Major Clutterbuck 's thousand pounds as another item to be cleared , but he thought it as well to keep silent upon the point . `` Any fool could foresee the possibility of it , '' quoth Ezra brusquely . `` The fall in prices is sure to be permanent , then ? '' the old man asked . `` It will last for some years , any way , '' Ezra answered . `` The Jagersfontein gravel is very rich , and there seems to be plenty of it . `` `` And within a few months we must repay both capital and interest . We are ruined ! '' The old merchant spoke in a broken voice , and his head sank upon his breast . `` When that day comes , '' he continued , `` the firm which has been for thirty years above reproach , and a model to the whole City , will be proclaimed as a bankrupt concern . Worse still , it will be shown to have been kept afloat for years by means which will be deemed fraudulent . I tell you , my dear son , that if any means could be devised which would avert this -- - anymeans -- -I should not hesitate to adopt them . I am a frail old man , and I feel that the short balance of my life would be a small thing for me to give in return for the assurance that the work which I have built up should not be altogether thrown away . `` `` Your life can not affect the matter one way or the other unless it were more heavily insured than it is , '' Ezra said callously , though somewhat moved by his father 's intensity of manner . `` Perhaps there is some way out of the wood yet , '' he added , in a more cheerful tone . `` It 's so paying , so prosperous -- -that 's what goes to my heart . If it had ruined itself it would be easier to bear it , but it is sacrificed to outside speculations -- -my wretched , wretched speculations . That is what makes it so hard . '' He touched the bell , and Gilray answered the summons . `` Listen to this , Ezra . What was our turn over last month , Gilray ? `` `` Fifteen thousand pounds , sir , '' said the little clerk , bobbing up and down like a buoy in a gale in his delight at seeing the junior partner once again . `` And the expenses ? `` `` Nine thousand three hundred . Uncommon brown you look , Mr. Ezra , to be sure , uncommon brown and well . I hopes as you enjoyed yourself in Africa , sir , and was too much for them Hottenpots and Boars . '' With this profound ethnological remark Mr. Gilray bobbed himself out of the room and went back radiantly to his ink-stained desk . `` Look at that , '' the old man said , when the click of the outer door showed that the clerk was out of ear-shot . `` Over five thousand profit in a month . Is it not terrible that such a business should go to ruin ? What a fortune it would have been for you ! `` `` By heavens , it must be saved ! '' cried Ezra , with meditative brows and hands plunged deep in his trouser pockets . `` There is that girl 's money . Could we not get the temporary use of it. '' '' Impossible ! '' his father answered with a sigh . `` It is so tied up in the will that she can not sign it away herself until she comes of age . There is no way of touching it except by her marriage -- -or by her death . `` `` Then we must have it by the only means open to us . `` `` And that is ? `` `` I must marry her . `` `` You will ? `` `` I shall . Here is my hand on it . `` `` Then we are saved , '' cried the old man , throwing up his tremulous hands . `` Girdlestone & Son will weather the storm yet . `` `` But Girdlestone becomes a sleeping partner , '' said Ezra . `` It 's for my own sake I do it and not for yours , '' with which frank remark he drew his hat down over his brows and set off for Eccleston Square.During Ezra Girdlestone 's absence in Africa our heroine 's life had been even less eventful than of old . There was a consistency about the merchant 's establishment which was characteristic of the man . The house itself was austere and gloomy , and every separate room , in spite of profuse expenditure and gorgeous furniture , had the same air of discomfort . The servants too , were , with one single exception , from the hard-visaged housekeeper to the Calvinistic footman , a depressing and melancholy race . The only departure from this general rule was Kate 's own maid , Rebecca Taylforth , a loudly-dressed , dark-eyed , coarse-voiced young woman , who raised up her voice and wept when Ezra departed for Africa . This damsel 's presence was most disagreeable to Kate , and , indeed , to John Girdlestone also , who only retained her on account of his son 's strong views upon the subject , and out of fear of an explosion which might wreck all his plans.The old merchant was Kate 's only companion during this period , and their conversation was usually limited to a conventional inquiry at breakfast time as to each other 's health . On his return from the City in the evening Girdlestone was always in a moody humour , and would eat his dinner hastily and in silence . After dinner he was in the habit of reading methodically the various financial articles in the day 's papers , which would occupy him until bedtime . Occasionally his companion would read these aloud to him , and such was the monotony of her uneventful life that she found herself becoming insensibly interested in the fluctuations of Grand Trunk scrip or Ohio and Delaware shares . The papers once exhausted , a bell was rung to summon the domestics , and when all were assembled the merchant , in a hard metallic voice , read through the lesson for the day and the evening prayers . On grand occasions he supplemented this by a short address , in the course of which he would pelt his frightened audience with hard jagged texts until he had reduced them to a fitting state of spiritual misery . No wonder that , under the influence of such an existence , the roses began to fade from his ward 's cheeks , and her youthful heart to grow sad and heavy.One daily tonic there was , however , which never deserted her . Strictly as Girdlestone guarded her , and jealously as he fenced her off from the outer world , he was unable to prevent this one little ray of light penetrating her prison . With an eye to the future he had so placed her that it seemed to him to be impossible that any sympathy could reach her from the outside world . Visits and visitors were alike forbidden to her . On no consideration was she to venture out alone . In spite of all his precautions , however , love has many arts and wiles which defy all opposition , and which can outplot the deepest of plotters.Eccleston Square was by no means in a direct line between Kensington and the City , yet morning and evening , as sure as the clock pointed to half-past nine and to quarter to six , Tom would stride through the old-fashioned square and past the grim house , whose grimness was softened to his eyes through its association with the bright dream of his life . It was but the momentary glance of a sweet face at the upper window and a single wave of a white hand , but it sent him on with a fresh heart and courage , and it broke the dull monotony of her dreary life.Occasionally , as we have seen , he even managed to find his way into the interior of this ogre 's castle , in which his fair princess was immured . John Girdlestone put an end to this by ordering that business messages should never under any circumstances be conveyed to his private residence . Nothing daunted , however , the lovers soon devised another means of surmounting the barrier which divided them.The centre of the square was taken up by a garden , rectangular and uninviting , fenced round with high forbidding walls which shut out all intruders and gave the place a resemblance to the exercise ground of a prison . Within the rails were clumps of bushes , and here and there a few despondent trees drooped their heads as though mourning over the uncongenial site in which they had been planted . Among these trees and bushes there were scattered seats , and the whole estate was at the disposal of the inhabitants of Eccleston Square , and was dignified by the name of the Eccleston Gardens . This was the only spot in which Kate was trusted without the surveillance of a footman , and it was therefore a favourite haunt of hers , where she would read or work for hours under the shelter of the scanty foliage.Hence it came about that one day , as Thomas Dimsdale was making his way Cityward at a rather earlier hour than was customary with him , he missed the usual apparition at the window