, and we look out together into the night.There is a pale new moon -- -the last moon that human eyes will ever rest upon -- -and the stars are most brilliant . Even in the clear plateau air of South America I have never seen them brighter . Possibly this etheric change has some effect upon light . The funeral pyre of Brighton is still blazing , and there is a very distant patch of scarlet in the western sky , which may mean trouble at Arundel or Chichester , possibly even at Portsmouth . I sit and muse and make an occasional note . There is a sweet melancholy in the air . Youth and beauty and chivalry and love -- -is this to be the end of it all ? The starlit earth looks a dreamland of gentle peace . Who would imagine it as the terrible Golgotha strewn with the bodies of the human race ? Suddenly , I find myself laughing . `` Halloa , young fellah ! '' says Lord John , staring at me in surprise . `` We could do with a joke in these hard times . What was it , then ? `` `` I was thinking of all the great unsolved questions , '' I answer , `` the questions that we spent so much labor and thought over . Think of Anglo-German competition , for example -- -or the Persian Gulf that my old chief was so keen about . Whoever would have guessed , when we fumed and fretted so , how they were to be eventually solved ? `` We fall into silence again . I fancy that each of us is thinking of friends that have gone before . Mrs . Challenger is sobbing quietly , and her husband is whispering to her . My mind turns to all the most unlikely people , and I see each of them lying white and rigid as poor Austin does in the yard . There is McArdle , for example , I know exactly where he is , with his face upon his writing desk and his hand on his own telephone , just as I heard him fall . Beaumont , the editor , too -- -I suppose he is lying upon the blue-and-red Turkey carpet which adorned his sanctum . And the fellows in the reporters ' room -- -Macdona and Murray and Bond . They had certainly died hard at work on their job , with note-books full of vivid impressions and strange happenings in their hands . I could just imagine how this one would have been packed off to the doctors , and that other to Westminster , and yet a third to St. Paul 's . What glorious rows of head-lines they must have seen as a last vision beautiful , never destined to materialize in printer 's ink ! I could see Macdona among the doctors -- - '' Hope in Harley Street '' -- -Mac had always a weakness for alliteration . `` Interview with Mr. Soley Wilson . '' `` Famous Specialist says 'Never despair ! ' '' `` Our Special Correspondent found the eminent scientist seated upon the roof , whither he had retreated to avoid the crowd of terrified patients who had stormed his dwelling . With a manner which plainly showed his appreciation of the immense gravity of the occasion , the celebrated physician refused to admit that every avenue of hope had been closed . '' That 's how Mac would start . Then there was Bond ; he would probably do St. Paul 's . He fancied his own literary touch . My word , what a theme for him ! `` Standing in the little gallery under the dome and looking down upon that packed mass of despairing humanity , groveling at this last instant before a Power which they had so persistently ignored , there rose to my ears from the swaying crowd such a low moan of entreaty and terror , such a shuddering cry for help to the Unknown , that -- -- -- '' and so forth.Yes , it would be a great end for a reporter , though , like myself , he would die with the treasures still unused . What would Bond not give , poor chap , to see `` J. H . B . '' at the foot of a column like that ? But what drivel I am writing ! It is just an attempt to pass the weary time . Mrs . Challenger has gone to the inner dressing-room , and the Professor says that she is asleep . He is making notes and consulting books at the central table , as calmly as if years of placid work lay before him . He writes with a very noisy quill pen which seems to be screeching scorn at all who disagree with him.Summerlee has dropped off in his chair and gives from time to time a peculiarly exasperating snore . Lord John lies back with his hands in his pockets and his eyes closed . How people can sleep under such conditions is more than I can imagine.Three-thirty a.m . I have just wakened with a start . It was five minutes past eleven when I made my last entry . I remember winding up my watch and noting the time . So I have wasted some five hours of the little span still left to us . Who would have believed it possible ? But I feel very much fresher , and ready for my fate -- -or try to persuade myself that I am . And yet , the fitter a man is , and the higher his tide of life , the more must he shrink from death . How wise and how merciful is that provision of nature by which his earthly anchor is usually loosened by many little imperceptible tugs , until his consciousness has drifted out of its untenable earthly harbor into the great sea beyond ! Mrs . Challenger is still in the dressing room . Challenger has fallen asleep in his chair . What a picture ! His enormous frame leans back , his huge , hairy hands are clasped across his waistcoat , and his head is so tilted that I can see nothing above his collar save a tangled bristle of luxuriant beard . He shakes with the vibration of his own snoring . Summerlee adds his occasional high tenor to Challenger 's sonorous bass . Lord John is sleeping also , his long body doubled up sideways in a basket-chair . The first cold light of dawn is just stealing into the room , and everything is grey and mournful.I look out at the sunrise -- -that fateful sunrise which will shine upon an unpeopled world . The human race is gone , extinguished in a day , but the planets swing round and the tides rise or fall , and the wind whispers , and all nature goes her way , down , as it would seem , to the very amoeba , with never a sign that he who styled himself the lord of creation had ever blessed or cursed the universe with his presence . Down in the yard lies Austin with sprawling limbs , his face glimmering white in the dawn , and the hose nozzle still projecting from his dead hand . The whole of human kind is typified in that one half-ludicrous and half-pathetic figure , lying so helpless beside the machine which it used to control.Here end the notes which I made at the time . Henceforward events were too swift and too poignant to allow me to write , but they are too clearly outlined in my memory that any detail could escape me.Some chokiness in my throat made me look at the oxygen cylinders , and I was startled at what I saw . The sands of our lives were running very low . At some period in the night Challenger had switched the tube from the third to the fourth cylinder . Now it was clear that this also was nearly exhausted . That horrible feeling of constriction was closing in upon me . I ran across and , unscrewing the nozzle , I changed it to our last supply . Even as I did so my conscience pricked me , for I felt that perhaps if I had held my hand all of them might have passed in their sleep . The thought was banished , however , by the voice of the lady from the inner room crying : -- - '' George , George , I am stifling ! `` `` It is all right , Mrs . Challenger , '' I answered as the others started to their feet . `` I have just turned on a fresh supply . `` Even at such a moment I could not help smiling at Challenger , who with a great hairy fist in each eye was like a huge , bearded baby , new wakened out of sleep . Summerlee was shivering like a man with the ague , human fears , as he realized his position , rising for an instant above the stoicism of the man of science . Lord John , however , was as cool and alert as if he had just been roused on a hunting morning . `` Fifthly and lastly , '' said he , glancing at the tube . `` Say , young fellah , do n't tell me you 've been writin ' up your impressions in that paper on your knee . `` `` Just a few notes to pass the time . `` `` Well , I do n't believe anyone but an Irishman would have done that . I expect you 'll have to wait till little brother amoeba gets grown up before you 'll find a reader . He do n't seem to take much stock of things just at present . Well , Herr Professor , what are the prospects ? `` Challenger was looking out at the great drifts of morning mist which lay over the landscape . Here and there the wooded hills rose like conical islands out of this woolly sea . `` It might be a winding sheet , '' said Mrs . Challenger , who had entered in her dressing-gown . `` There 's that song of yours , George , 'Ring out the old , ring in the new . ' It was prophetic . But you are shivering , my poor dear friends . I have been warm under a coverlet all night , and you cold in your chairs . But I 'll soon set you right . `` The brave little creature hurried away , and presently we heard the sizzling of a kettle . She was back soon with five steaming cups of cocoa upon a tray . `` Drink these , '' said she . `` You will feel so much better . `` And we did . Summerlee asked if he might light his pipe , and we all had cigarettes . It steadied our nerves , I think , but it was a mistake , for it made a dreadful atmosphere in that stuffy room . Challenger had to open the ventilator . `` How long , Challenger ? '' asked Lord John . `` Possibly three hours , '' he answered with a shrug . `` I used to be frightened , '' said his wife . `` But the nearer I get to it , the easier it seems . Do n't you think we ought to pray , George ? `` `` You will pray , dear , if you wish , '' the big man answered ,