I have talked with him , and he showed such surprise at the first words in which I tried to express my unspeakable secret that I went no further . As far as I can gather ( by hints and inferences rather than by any statement ) , his own experience was limited to some words or looks such as I have myself endured . His abandonment of Miss Penclosa is in itself a sign that he was never really in her toils . Oh , if he only knew his escape ! He has to thank his phlegmatic Saxon temperament for it . I am black and Celtic , and this hag 's clutch is deep in my nerves . Shall I ever get it out ? Shall I ever be the same man that I was just one short fortnight ago ? Let me consider what I had better do . I can not leave the university in the middle of the term . If I were free , my course would be obvious . I should start at once and travel in Persia . But would she allow me to start ? And could her influence not reach me in Persia , and bring me back to within touch of her crutch ? I can only find out the limits of this hellish power by my own bitter experience . I will fight and fight and fight -- -and what can I do more ? I know very well that about eight o'clock to-night that craving for her society , that irresistible restlessness , will come upon me . How shall I overcome it ? What shall I do ? I must make it impossible for me to leave the room . I shall lock the door and throw the key out of the window . But , then , what am I to do in the morning ? Never mind about the morning . I must at all costs break this chain which holds me.April 9 . Victory ! I have done splendidly ! At seven o'clock last night I took a hasty dinner , and then locked myself up in my bedroom and dropped the key into the garden . I chose a cheery novel , and lay in bed for three hours trying to read it , but really in a horrible state of trepidation , expecting every instant that I should become conscious of the impulse . Nothing of the sort occurred , however , and I awoke this morning with the feeling that a black nightmare had been lifted off me . Perhaps the creature realized what I had done , and understood that it was useless to try to influence me . At any rate , I have beaten her once , and if I can do it once , I can do it again.It was most awkward about the key in the morning . Luckily , there was an under-gardener below , and I asked him to throw it up . No doubt he thought I had just dropped it . I will have doors and windows screwed up and six stout men to hold me down in my bed before I will surrender myself to be hag-ridden in this way.I had a note from Mrs. Marden this afternoon asking me to go round and see her . I intended to do so in any case , but had not excepted to find bad news waiting for me . It seems that the Armstrongs , from whom Agatha has expectations , are due home from Adelaide in the Aurora , and that they have written to Mrs. Marden and her to meet them in town . They will probably be away for a month or six weeks , and , as the Aurora is due on Wednesday , they must go at once -- -to-morrow , if they are ready in time . My consolation is that when we meet again there will be no more parting between Agatha and me . `` I want you to do one thing , Agatha , '' said I , when we were alone together . `` If you should happen to meet Miss Penclosa , either in town or here , you must promise me never again to allow her to mesmerize you . `` Agatha opened her eyes . `` Why , it was only the other day that you were saying how interesting it all was , and how determined you were to finish your experiments . `` `` I know , but I have changed my mind since then . `` `` And you wo n't have it any more ? '' '' No . `` `` I am so glad , Austin . You ca n't think how pale and worn you have been lately . It was really our principal objection to going to London now that we did not wish to leave you when you were so pulled down . And your manner has been so strange occasionally -- -especially that night when you left poor Professor Pratt-Haldane to play dummy . I am convinced that these experiments are very bad for your nerves . `` `` I think so , too , dear . `` `` And for Miss Penclosa 's nerves as well . You have heard that she is ill ? '' '' No. '' '' Mrs . Wilson told us so last night . She described it as a nervous fever . Professor Wilson is coming back this week , and of course Mrs. Wilson is very anxious that Miss Penclosa should be well again then , for he has quite a programme of experiments which he is anxious to carry out . `` I was glad to have Agatha 's promise , for it was enough that this woman should have one of us in her clutch . On the other hand , I was disturbed to hear about Miss Penclosa 's illness . It rather discounts the victory which I appeared to win last night . I remember that she said that loss of health interfered with her power . That may be why I was able to hold my own so easily . Well , well , I must take the same precautions to-night and see what comes of it . I am childishly frightened when I think of her.April 10 . All went very well last night . I was amused at the gardener 's face when I had again to hail him this morning and to ask him to throw up my key . I shall get a name among the servants if this sort of thing goes on . But the great point is that I stayed in my room without the slightest inclination to leave it . I do believe that I am shaking myself clear of this incredible bond -- -or is it only that the woman 's power is in abeyance until she recovers her strength ? I can but pray for the best.The Mardens left this morning , and the brightness seems to have gone out of the spring sunshine . And yet it is very beautiful also as it gleams on the green chestnuts opposite my windows , and gives a touch of gayety to the heavy , lichen-mottled walls of the old colleges . How sweet and gentle and soothing is Nature ! Who would think that there lurked in her also such vile forces , such odious possibilities ! For of course I understand that this dreadful thing which has sprung out at me is neither supernatural nor even preternatural . No , it is a natural force which this woman can use and society is ignorant of . The mere fact that it ebbs with her strength shows how entirely it is subject to physical laws . If I had time , I might probe it to the bottom and lay my hands upon its antidote . But you can not tame the tiger when you are beneath his claws . You can but try to writhe away from him . Ah , when I look in the glass and see my own dark eyes and clear-cut Spanish face , I long for a vitriol splash or a bout of the small-pox . One or the other might have saved me from this calamity.I am inclined to think that I may have trouble to-night . There are two things which make me fear so . One is that I met Mrs. Wilson in the street , and that she tells me that Miss Penclosa is better , though still weak . I find myself wishing in my heart that the illness had been her last . The other is that Professor Wilson comes back in a day or two , and his presence would act as a constraint upon her . I should not fear our interviews if a third person were present . For both these reasons I have a presentiment of trouble to-night , and I shall take the same precautions as before.April 10 . No , thank God , all went well last night . I really could not face the gardener again . I locked my door and thrust the key underneath it , so that I had to ask the maid to let me out in the morning . But the precaution was really not needed , for I never had any inclination to go out at all . Three evenings in succession at home ! I am surely near the end of my troubles , for Wilson will be home again either today or tomorrow . Shall I tell him of what I have gone through or not ? I am convinced that I should not have the slightest sympathy from him . He would look upon me as an interesting case , and read a paper about me at the next meeting of the Psychical Society , in which he would gravely discuss the possibility of my being a deliberate liar , and weigh it against the chances of my being in an early stage of lunacy . No , I shall get no comfort out of Wilson.I am feeling wonderfully fit and well . I do n't think I ever lectured with greater spirit . Oh , if I could only get this shadow off my life , how happy I should be ! Young , fairly wealthy , in the front rank of my profession , engaged to a beautiful and charming girl -- -have I not every thing which a man could ask for ? Only one thing to trouble me , but what a thing it is ! Midnight . I shall go mad . Yes , that will be the end of it . I shall go mad . I am not far from it now . My head throbs as I rest it on my hot hand . I am quivering all over like a scared horse . Oh , what a night I have had ! And yet I have some cause to be satisfied also.At the risk of becoming the laughing-stock of my own servant , I again slipped my key under the door , imprisoning myself for the night . Then , finding it too early to go to bed , I lay down with my clothes on and began to read one of Dumas 's novels . Suddenly I was gripped -- -gripped and dragged from the couch . It is only thus that I can describe the overpowering nature of the force which pounced upon me . I clawed at the coverlet . I clung to the wood-work . I believe that I screamed out in my frenzy . It was all useless , hopeless . I MUST go .