of armed men along the further side of the yard . `` `` A line ! At this hour ! `` `` Yes ; and here come more . See , at the centre gate ! Now what in the name of heaven is this ? `` As he spoke the door which faced them opened and a singular procession filed out . First came two dozen footmen , walking in pairs , all carrying halberds , and clad in the same maroon-coloured liveries . After them a huge bearded man , with his tunic off , and the sleeves of his coarse shirt rolled up over his elbows , strode along with a great axe over his left shoulder . Behind him , a priest with an open missal pattered forth prayers , and in his shadow was a woman , clad in black , her neck bared , and a black shawl cast over her head and drooping in front of her bowed face . Within grip of her walked a tall , thin , fierce-faced man , with harsh red features , and a great jutting nose . He wore a flat velvet cap with a single eagle feather fastened into it by a diamond clasp , which gleamed in the morning light . But bright as was his gem , his dark eyes were brighter still , and sparkled from under his bushy brows with a mad brilliancy which bore with it something of menace and of terror . His limbs jerked as he walked , his features twisted , and he carried himself like a man who strives hard to hold himself in when his whole soul is aflame with exultation . Behind him again twelve more maroon-clad retainers brought up the rear of this singular procession.The woman had faltered at the foot of the scaffold , but the man behind her had thrust her forward with such force that she stumbled over the lower step , and would have fallen had she not clutched at the arm of the priest . At the top of the ladder her eyes met the dreadful block , and she burst into a scream , and shrunk backwards . But again the man thrust her on , and two of the followers caught her by either wrist and dragged her forwards . `` Oh , Maurice ! Maurice ! '' she screamed . `` I am not fit to die ! Oh , forgive me , Maurice , as you hope for forgiveness yourself ! Maurice ! Maurice ! '' She strove to get towards him , to clutch at his wrist , at his sleeve , but he stood with his hand on his sword , gazing at her with a face which was all wreathed and contorted with merriment . At the sight of that dreadful mocking face the prayers froze upon her lips . As well pray for mercy to the dropping stone or to the rushing stream . She turned away , and threw back the mantle which had shrouded her features . `` Ah , sire ! '' she cried . `` Sire ! If you could see me now ! `` And at the cry and at the sight of that fair pale face , De Catinat , looking down from the window , was stricken as though by a dagger ; for there , standing beside the headsman 's block , was she who had been the most powerful , as well as the wittiest and the fairest , of the women of France -- -none other than Francoise de Montespan , so lately the favourite of the king.On the night upon which such strange chances had befallen his messengers , the king sat alone in his cabinet . Over his head a perfumed lamp , held up by four little flying Cupids of crystal , who dangled by golden chains from the painted ceiling , cast a brilliant light upon the chamber , which was flashed back twenty-fold by the mirrors upon the wall . The ebony and silver furniture , the dainty carpet of La Savonniere , the silks of Tours , the tapestries of the Gobelins , the gold-work and the delicate chinaware of Sevres -- -the best of all that France could produce was centred between these four walls . Nothing had ever passed through that door which was not a masterpiece of its kind . And amid all this brilliance the master of it sat , his chin resting upon his hands , his elbows upon the table , with eyes which stared vacantly at the wall , a moody and a solemn man.But though his dark eyes were fixed upon the wall , they saw nothing of it . They looked rather down the long vista of his own life , away to those early years when what we dream and what we do shade so mistily into one another . Was it a dream or was it a fact , those two men who used to stoop over his baby crib , the one with the dark coat and the star upon his breast , whom he had been taught to call father , and the other one with the long red gown and the little twinkling eyes ? Even now , after more than forty years , that wicked , astute , powerful face flashed up , and he saw once more old Richelieu , the great unanointed king of France . And then the other cardinal , the long lean one who had taken his pocket-money , and had grudged him his food , and had dressed him in old clothes . How well he could recall the day when Mazarin had rouged himself for the last time , and how the court had danced with joy at the news that he was no more ! And his mother , too , how beautiful she was , and how masterful ! Could he not remember how bravely she had borne herself during that war in which the power of the great nobles had been broken , and how she had at last lain down to die , imploring the priests not to stain her cap-strings with their holy oils ! And then he thought of what he had done himself , how he had shorn down his great subjects until , instead of being like a tree among saplings , he had been alone , far above all others , with his shadow covering the whole land . Then there were his wars and his laws and his treaties . Under his care France had overflowed her frontiers both on the north and on the east , and yet had been so welded together internally that she had but one voice , with which she spoke through him . And then there was that line of beautiful faces which wavered up in front of him . There was Olympe de Mancini , whose Italian eyes had first taught him that there is a power which can rule over a king ; her sister , too , Marie de Mancini ; his wife , with her dark little sun-browned face ; Henrietta of England , whose death had first shown him the horrors which lie in life ; La Valliere , Montespan , Fontanges . Some were dead ; some were in convents . Some who had been wicked and beautiful were now only wicked . And what had been the outcome of all this troubled , striving life of his ? He was already at the outer verge of his middle years ; he had lost his taste for the pleasures of his youth ; gout and vertigo were ever at his foot and at his head to remind him that between them lay a kingdom which he could not hope to govern . And after all these years he had not won a single true friend , not one , in his family , in his court , in his country , save only this woman whom he was to wed that night . And she , how patient she was , how good , how lofty ! With her he might hope to wipe off by the true glory of his remaining years all the sin and the folly of the past . Would that the archbishop might come , that he might feel that she was indeed his , that he held her with hooks of steel which would bind them as long as life should last ! There came a tap at the door . He sprang up eagerly , thinking that the ecclesiastic might have arrived . It was , however , only his personal attendant , to say that Louvois would crave an interview . Close at his heels came the minister himself , high-nosed and heavy-chinned . Two leather bags were dangling from his hand . `` Sire , '' said he , when Bontems had retired , `` I trust that I do not intrude upon you . `` `` No , no , Louvois . My thoughts were in truth beginning to be very indifferent company , and I am glad to be rid of them . `` `` Your Majesty 's thoughts can never , I am sure , be anything but pleasant , '' said the courtier . `` But I have brought you here something which I trust may make them even more so. '' '' Ah ! What is that ? `` `` When so many of our young nobles went into Germany and Hungary , you were pleased in your wisdom to say that you would like well to see what reports they sent home to their friends ; also what news was sent out from the court to them. '' '' Yes . `` `` I have them here -- -all that the courier has brought in , and all that are gathered to go out , each in its own bag . The wax has been softened in spirit , the fastenings have been steamed , and they are now open . `` The king took out a handful of the letters and glanced at the addresses . `` I should indeed like to read the hearts of these people , '' said he . `` Thus only can I tell the true thoughts of those who bow and simper before my face . I suppose , '' with a sudden flash of suspicion from his eyes , `` that you have not yourself looked into these ? `` `` Oh , sire , I had rather die ! `` `` You swear it ? `` `` As I hope for salvation ! '' '' Hum ! There is one among these which I see is from your own son . `` Louvois changed colour , and stammered as he looked at the envelope . `` Your Majesty will find that he is as loyal out of your presence as in it , else he is no son of mine , '' said he . `` Then we shall begin with his . Ha ! it is but ten lines long . 'Dearest Achille , how I long for you to come back ! The court is as dull as a cloister now that you are gone . My ridiculous father still struts about like a turkey-cock , as if all his medals and crosses could cover the fact that he is but a head lackey , with no more real power than I have . He wheedles a good deal out of the king , but what he does with it I can not imagine , for little comes my way . I still owe those ten thousand livres to the man in the Rue