. `` If the run continues you must send me a wire , and I shall make a small addition to my account . You will send me a receipt by post . Good-morning , gentlemen ! '' He bowed himself out ere the astounded partners could realise what had befallen them , or raise their eyes from the huge black bag and the visiting card which lay upon their table . There was no great failure in Birmingham that day , and the house of Garraweg still survives to enjoy the success which it deserves.Such were the deeds by which Raffles Haw made himself known throughout the Midlands , and yet , in spite of all his open-handedness , he was not a man to be imposed upon . In vain the sturdy beggar cringed at his gate , and in vain the crafty letter-writer poured out a thousand fabulous woes upon paper . Robert was astonished when he brought some tale of trouble to the Hall to observe how swift was the perception of the recluse , and how unerringly he could detect a flaw in a narrative , or lay his finger upon the one point which rang false . Were a man strong enough to help himself , or of such a nature as to profit nothing by help , none would he get from the master of the New Hall . In vain , for example , did old McIntyre throw himself continually across the path of the millionaire , and impress upon him , by a thousand hints and innuendoes , the hard fortune which had been dealt him , and the ease with which his fallen greatness might be restored . Raffles Haw listened politely , bowed , smiled , but never showed the slightest inclination to restore the querulous old gunmaker to his pedestal.But if the recluse 's wealth was a lure which drew the beggars from far and near , as the lamp draws the moths , it had the same power of attraction upon another and much more dangerous class . Strange hard faces were seen in the village street , prowling figures were marked at night stealing about among the fir plantations , and warning messages arrived from city police and county constabulary to say that evil visitors were known to have taken train to Tamfield . But if , as Raffles Haw held , there were few limits to the power of immense wealth , it possessed , among other things , the power of self-preservation , as one or two people were to learn to their cost . `` Would you mind stepping up to the Hall ? '' he said one morning , putting his head in at the door of the Elmdene sitting-room . `` I have something there that might amuse you . '' He was on intimate terms with the McIntyres now , and there were few days on which they did not see something of each other.They gladly accompanied him , all three , for such invitations were usually the prelude of some agreeable surprise which he had in store for them . `` I have shown you a tiger , '' he remarked to Laura , as he led them into the dining-room . `` I will now show you something quite as dangerous , though not nearly so pretty . '' There was an arrangement of mirrors at one end of the room , with a large circular glass set at a sharp angle at the top . `` Look in there -- -in the upper glass , '' said Raffles Haw . `` Good gracious ! what dreadful-looking men ! '' cried Laura . `` There are two of them , and I do n't know which is the worse . `` `` What on earth are they doing ? '' asked Robert . `` They appear to be sitting on the ground in some sort of a cellar . `` `` Most dangerous-looking characters , '' said the old man . `` I should strongly recommend you to send for a policeman . `` `` I have done so . But it seems a work of supererogation to take them to prison , for they are very snugly in prison already . However , I suppose that the law must have its own . `` `` And who are they , and how did they come there ? Do tell us , Mr . Haw . `` Laura McIntyre had a pretty beseeching way with her , which went rather piquantly with her queenly style of beauty . `` I know no more than you do . They were not there last night , and they are here this morning , so I suppose it is a safe inference that they came in during the night , especially as my servants found the window open when they came down . As to their character and intentions , I should think that is pretty legible upon their faces . They look a pair of beauties , do n't they ? `` `` But I can not understand in the least where they are , '' said Robert , staring into the mirror . `` One of them has taken to butting his head against the wall . No , he is bending so that the other may stand upon his back . He is up there now , and the light is shining upon his face . What a bewildered ruffianly face it is too . I should so like to sketch it . It would be a study for the picture I am thinking of of the Reign of Terror . `` `` I have caught them in my patent burglar trap , '' said Haw . `` They are my first birds , but I have no doubt that they will not be the last . I will show you how it works . It is quite a new thing . This flooring is now as strong as possible , but every night I disconnect it . It is done simultaneously by a central machine for every room on the ground-floor . When the floor is disconnected one may advance three or four steps , either from the window or door , and then that whole part turns on a hinge and slides you into a padded strong-room beneath , where you may kick your heels until you are released . There is a central oasis between the hinges , where the furniture is grouped for the night . The flooring flies into position again when the weight of the intruder is removed , and there he must bide , while I can always take a peep at him by this simple little optical arrangement . I thought it might amuse you to have a look at my prisoners before I handed them over to the head-constable , who I see is now coming up the avenue . `` `` The poor burglars ! '' cried Laura . `` It is no wonder that they look bewildered , for I suppose , Mr. Haw , that they neither know where they are , nor how they came there . I am so glad to know that you guard yourself in this way , for I have often thought that you ran a danger . `` `` Have you so ? '' said he , smiling round at her . `` I think that my house is fairly burglar-proof . I have one window which may be used as an entrance , the centre one of the three of my laboratory . I keep it so because , to tell the truth , I am somewhat of a night prowler myself , and when I treat myself to a ramble under the stars I like to slip in and out without ceremony . It would , however , be a fortunate rogue who picked the only safe entrance out of a hundred , and even then he might find pitfalls . Here is the constable , but you must not go , for Miss McIntyre has still something to see in my little place . If you will step into the billiard-room I shall be with you in a very few moments . `` That morning , and many mornings both before and afterwards , were spent by Laura at the New Hall examining the treasures of the museum , playing with the thousand costly toys which Raffles Haw had collected , or sallying out from the smoking-room in the crystal chamber into the long line of luxurious hot-houses . Haw would walk demurely beside her as she flitted from one thing to another like a butterfly among flowers , watching her out of the corner of his eyes , and taking a quiet pleasure in her delight . The only joy which his costly possessions had ever brought him was that which came from the entertainment of others.By this time his attentions towards Laura McIntyre had become so marked that they could hardly be mistaken . He visibly brightened in her presence , and was never weary of devising a thousand methods of surprising and pleasing her . Every morning ere the McIntyre family were afoot a great bouquet of strange and beautiful flowers was brought down by a footman from the Hall to brighten their breakfast-table . Her slightest wish , however fantastic , was instantly satisfied , if human money or ingenuity could do it . When the frost lasted a stream was dammed and turned from its course that it might flood two meadows , solely in order that she might have a place upon which to skate . With the thaw there came a groom every afternoon with a sleek and beautiful mare in case Miss McIntyre should care to ride . Everything went to show that she had made a conquest of the recluse of the New Hall.And she on her side played her part admirably . With female adaptiveness she fell in with his humour , and looked at the world through his eyes . Her talk was of almshouses and free libraries , of charities and of improvements . He had never a scheme to which she could not add some detail making it more complete and more effective . To Haw it seemed that at last he had met a mind which was in absolute affinity with his own . Here was a help-mate , who could not only follow , but even lead him in the path which he had chosen.Neither Robert nor his father could fail to see what was going forward , but to the latter nothing could possibly be more acceptable than a family tie which should connect him , however indirectly , with a man of vast fortune . The glamour of the gold bags had crept over Robert also , and froze the remonstrance upon his lips . It was very pleasant to have the handling of all this wealth , even as a mere agent . Why should he do or say what might disturb their present happy relations ? It was his sister 's business , not his ; and as to Hector Spurling , he must take his chance as other men did . It was obviously best not to move one way or the other in the matter.But to Robert himself , his work and his surroundings were becoming more and more irksome . His joy in his art had become less keen since he had known Raffles Haw . It seemed so hard to toll and slave to earn such a trifling sum , when money could really be had for the asking . It was true that he had asked for none , but large sums were