Morstan disappears . The only person in London whom he could have visited is Major Sholto . Major Sholto denies having heard that he was in London . Four years later Sholto dies . WITHIN A WEEK OF HIS DEATH Captain Morstan 's daughter receives a valuable present , which is repeated from year to year , and now culminates in a letter which describes her as a wronged woman . What wrong can it refer to except this deprivation of her father ? And why should the presents begin immediately after Sholto 's death , unless it is that Sholto 's heir knows something of the mystery and desires to make compensation ? Have you any alternative theory which will meet the facts ? `` `` But what a strange compensation ! And how strangely made ! Why , too , should he write a letter now , rather than six years ago ? Again , the letter speaks of giving her justice . What justice can she have ? It is too much to suppose that her father is still alive . There is no other injustice in her case that you know of . `` `` There are difficulties ; there are certainly difficulties , '' said Sherlock Holmes , pensively . `` But our expedition of to-night will solve them all . Ah , here is a four-wheeler , and Miss Morstan is inside . Are you all ready ? Then we had better go down , for it is a little past the hour . `` I picked up my hat and my heaviest stick , but I observed that Holmes took his revolver from his drawer and slipped it into his pocket . It was clear that he thought that our night 's work might be a serious one.Miss Morstan was muffled in a dark cloak , and her sensitive face was composed , but pale . She must have been more than woman if she did not feel some uneasiness at the strange enterprise upon which we were embarking , yet her self-control was perfect , and she readily answered the few additional questions which Sherlock Holmes put to her . `` Major Sholto was a very particular friend of papa 's , '' she said . `` His letters were full of allusions to the major . He and papa were in command of the troops at the Andaman Islands , so they were thrown a great deal together . By the way , a curious paper was found in papa 's desk which no one could understand . I do n't suppose that it is of the slightest importance , but I thought you might care to see it , so I brought it with me . It is here . `` Holmes unfolded the paper carefully and smoothed it out upon his knee . He then very methodically examined it all over with his double lens . `` It is paper of native Indian manufacture , '' he remarked . `` It has at some time been pinned to a board . The diagram upon it appears to be a plan of part of a large building with numerous halls , corridors , and passages . At one point is a small cross done in red ink , and above it is '3.37 from left , ' in faded pencil-writing . In the left-hand corner is a curious hieroglyphic like four crosses in a line with their arms touching . Beside it is written , in very rough and coarse characters , 'The sign of the four , -- -Jonathan Small , Mahomet Singh , Abdullah Khan , Dost Akbar . ' No , I confess that I do not see how this bears upon the matter . Yet it is evidently a document of importance . It has been kept carefully in a pocket-book ; for the one side is as clean as the other . `` `` It was in his pocket-book that we found it . `` `` Preserve it carefully , then , Miss Morstan , for it may prove to be of use to us . I begin to suspect that this matter may turn out to be much deeper and more subtle than I at first supposed . I must reconsider my ideas . '' He leaned back in the cab , and I could see by his drawn brow and his vacant eye that he was thinking intently . Miss Morstan and I chatted in an undertone about our present expedition and its possible outcome , but our companion maintained his impenetrable reserve until the end of our journey.It was a September evening , and not yet seven o'clock , but the day had been a dreary one , and a dense drizzly fog lay low upon the great city . Mud-colored clouds drooped sadly over the muddy streets . Down the Strand the lamps were but misty splotches of diffused light which threw a feeble circular glimmer upon the slimy pavement . The yellow glare from the shop-windows streamed out into the steamy , vaporous air , and threw a murky , shifting radiance across the crowded thoroughfare . There was , to my mind , something eerie and ghost-like in the endless procession of faces which flitted across these narrow bars of light , -- -sad faces and glad , haggard and merry . Like all human kind , they flitted from the gloom into the light , and so back into the gloom once more . I am not subject to impressions , but the dull , heavy evening , with the strange business upon which we were engaged , combined to make me nervous and depressed . I could see from Miss Morstan 's manner that she was suffering from the same feeling . Holmes alone could rise superior to petty influences . He held his open note-book upon his knee , and from time to time he jotted down figures and memoranda in the light of his pocket-lantern.At the Lyceum Theatre the crowds were already thick at the side-entrances . In front a continuous stream of hansoms and four-wheelers were rattling up , discharging their cargoes of shirt-fronted men and beshawled , bediamonded women . We had hardly reached the third pillar , which was our rendezvous , before a small , dark , brisk man in the dress of a coachman accosted us . `` Are you the parties who come with Miss Morstan ? '' he asked . `` I am Miss Morstan , and these two gentlemen are my friends , '' said she.He bent a pair of wonderfully penetrating and questioning eyes upon us . `` You will excuse me , miss , '' he said with a certain dogged manner , `` but I was to ask you to give me your word that neither of your companions is a police-officer . `` `` I give you my word on that , '' she answered.He gave a shrill whistle , on which a street Arab led across a four-wheeler and opened the door . The man who had addressed us mounted to the box , while we took our places inside . We had hardly done so before the driver whipped up his horse , and we plunged away at a furious pace through the foggy streets.The situation was a curious one . We were driving to an unknown place , on an unknown errand . Yet our invitation was either a complete hoax , -- -which was an inconceivable hypothesis , -- -or else we had good reason to think that important issues might hang upon our journey . Miss Morstan 's demeanor was as resolute and collected as ever . I endeavored to cheer and amuse her by reminiscences of my adventures in Afghanistan ; but , to tell the truth , I was myself so excited at our situation and so curious as to our destination that my stories were slightly involved . To this day she declares that I told her one moving anecdote as to how a musket looked into my tent at the dead of night , and how I fired a double-barrelled tiger cub at it . At first I had some idea as to the direction in which we were driving ; but soon , what with our pace , the fog , and my own limited knowledge of London , I lost my bearings , and knew nothing , save that we seemed to be going a very long way . Sherlock Holmes was never at fault , however , and he muttered the names as the cab rattled through squares and in and out by tortuous by-streets . `` Rochester Row , '' said he . `` Now Vincent Square . Now we come out on the Vauxhall Bridge Road . We are making for the Surrey side , apparently . Yes , I thought so . Now we are on the bridge . You can catch glimpses of the river . `` We did indeed get a fleeting view of a stretch of the Thames with the lamps shining upon the broad , silent water ; but our cab dashed on , and was soon involved in a labyrinth of streets upon the other side . `` Wordsworth Road , '' said my companion . `` Priory Road . Lark Hall Lane . Stockwell Place . Robert Street . Cold Harbor Lane . Our quest does not appear to take us to very fashionable regions . `` We had , indeed , reached a questionable and forbidding neighborhood . Long lines of dull brick houses were only relieved by the coarse glare and tawdry brilliancy of public houses at the corner . Then came rows of two-storied villas each with a fronting of miniature garden , and then again interminable lines of new staring brick buildings , -- -the monster tentacles which the giant city was throwing out into the country . At last the cab drew up at the third house in a new terrace . None of the other houses were inhabited , and that at which we stopped was as dark as its neighbors , save for a single glimmer in the kitchen window . On our knocking , however , the door was instantly thrown open by a Hindoo servant clad in a yellow turban , white loose-fitting clothes , and a yellow sash . There was something strangely incongruous in this Oriental figure framed in the commonplace door-way of a third-rate suburban dwelling-house . `` The Sahib awaits you , '' said he , and even as he spoke there came a high piping voice from some inner room . `` Show them in to me , khitmutgar , '' it cried . `` Show them straight in to me . `` We followed the Indian down a sordid and common passage , ill lit and worse furnished , until he came to a door upon the right , which he threw open . A blaze of yellow light streamed out upon us , and in the centre of the glare there stood a small man with a very high head , a bristle of red hair all round the fringe of it , and a bald , shining scalp which shot out from among it like a mountain-peak from fir-trees . He writhed his hands together as he stood , and his features were in a perpetual jerk , now smiling , now scowling , but never for an instant in repose . Nature had given him a pendulous lip , and a too visible line of yellow and irregular teeth , which he strove feebly to conceal by constantly passing his hand over the lower part of his face . In spite of his obtrusive