as squire . News hath come that not one of the Company was left alive , and so , poor lamb , she hath -- -- -- '' '' Lady ! '' cried Alleyne , with catching breath , `` is it the Lady Maude Loring of whom you speak ? `` `` It is , in sooth. '' '' Maude ! And in a nunnery ! Did , then , the thought of her father 's death so move her ? `` `` Her father ! '' cried the lady , smiling . `` Nay ; Maude is a good daughter , but I think it was this young golden-haired squire of whom I have heard who has made her turn her back upon the world . `` `` And I stand talking here ! '' cried Alleyne wildly . `` Come , John , come ! `` Rushing to his horse , he swung himself into the saddle , and was off down the road in a rolling cloud of dust as fast as his good steed could bear him.Great had been the rejoicing amid the Romsey nuns when the Lady Maude Loring had craved admission into their order -- -for was she not sole child and heiress of the old knight , with farms and fiefs which she could bring to the great nunnery ? Long and earnest had been the talks of the gaunt lady abbess , in which she had conjured the young novice to turn forever from the world , and to rest her bruised heart under the broad and peaceful shelter of the church . And now , when all was settled , and when abbess and lady superior had had their will , it was but fitting that some pomp and show should mark the glad occasion . Hence was it that the good burghers of Romsey were all in the streets , that gay flags and flowers brightened the path from the nunnery to the church , and that a long procession wound up to the old arched door leading up the bride to these spiritual nuptials . There was lay-sister Agatha with the high gold crucifix , and the three incense-bearers , and the two-and-twenty garbed in white , who cast flowers upon either side of them and sang sweetly the while . Then , with four attendants , came the novice , her drooping head wreathed with white blossoms , and , behind , the abbess and her council of older nuns , who were already counting in their minds whether their own bailiff could manage the farms of Twynham , or whether a reeve would be needed beneath him , to draw the utmost from these new possessions which this young novice was about to bring them.But alas ! for plots and plans when love and youth and nature , and above all , fortune are arrayed against them . Who is this travel-stained youth who dares to ride so madly through the lines of staring burghers ? Why does he fling himself from his horse and stare so strangely about him ? See how he has rushed through the incense-bearers , thrust aside lay-sister Agatha , scattered the two-and-twenty damosels who sang so sweetly -- -and he stands before the novice with his hands out-stretched , and his face shining , and the light of love in his gray eyes . Her foot is on the very lintel of the church , and yet he bars the way -- -and she , she thinks no more of the wise words and holy rede of the lady abbess , but she hath given a sobbing cry and hath fallen forward with his arms around her drooping body and her wet cheek upon his breast . A sorry sight this for the gaunt abbess , an ill lesson too for the stainless two-and-twenty who have ever been taught that the way of nature is the way of sin . But Maude and Alleyne care little for this . A dank , cold air comes out from the black arch before them . Without , the sun shines bright and the birds are singing amid the ivy on the drooping beeches . Their choice is made , and they turn away hand-in-hand , with their backs to the darkness and their faces to the light.Very quiet was the wedding in the old priory church at Christchurch , where Father Christopher read the service , and there were few to see save the Lady Loring and John , and a dozen bowmen from the castle . The Lady of Twynham had drooped and pined for weary months , so that her face was harsher and less comely than before , yet she still hoped on , for her lord had come through so many dangers that she could scarce believe that he might be stricken down at last . It had been her wish to start for Spain and to search for him , but Alleyne had persuaded her to let him go in her place . There was much to look after , now that the lands of Minstead were joined to those of Twynham , and Alleyne had promised her that if she would but bide with his wife he would never come back to Hampshire again until he had gained some news , good or ill , of her lord and lover.The yellow cog had been engaged , with Goodwin Hawtayne in command , and a month after the wedding Alleyne rode down to Bucklershard to see if she had come round yet from Southampton . On the way he passed the fishing village of Pitt 's Deep , and marked that a little creyer or brig was tacking off the land , as though about to anchor there . On his way back , as he rode towards the village , he saw that she had indeed anchored , and that many boats were round her , bearing cargo to the shore.A bow-shot from Pitt 's Deep there was an inn a little back from the road , very large and wide-spread , with a great green bush hung upon a pole from one of the upper windows . At this window he marked , as he rode up , that a man was seated who appeared to be craning his neck in his direction . Alleyne was still looking up at him , when a woman came rushing from the open door of the inn , and made as though she would climb a tree , looking back the while with a laughing face . Wondering what these doings might mean , Alleyne tied his horse to a tree , and was walking amid the trunks towards the inn , when there shot from the entrance a second woman who made also for the trees . Close at her heels came a burly , brown-faced man , who leaned against the door-post and laughed loudly with his hand to his side , `` Ah , mes belles ! '' he cried , `` and is it thus you treat me ? Ah , mes petites ! I swear by these finger-bones that I would not hurt a hair of your pretty heads ; but I have been among the black paynim , and , by my hilt ! it does me good to look at your English cheeks . Come , drink a stoup of muscadine with me , mes anges , for my heart is warm to be among ye again . `` At the sight of the man Alleyne had stood staring , but at the sound of his voice such a thrill of joy bubbled up in his heart that he had to bite his lip to keep himself from shouting outright . But a deeper pleasure yet was in store . Even as he looked , the window above was pushed outwards , and the voice of the man whom he had seen there came out from it . `` Aylward , '' cried the voice , `` I have seen just now a very worthy person come down the road , though my eyes could scarce discern whether he carried coat-armor . I pray you to wait upon him and tell him that a very humble knight of England abides here , so that if he be in need of advancement , or have any small vow upon his soul , or desire to exalt his lady , I may help him to accomplish it . `` Aylward at this order came shuffling forward amid the trees , and in an instant the two men were clinging in each other 's arms , laughing and shouting and patting each other in their delight ; while old Sir Nigel came running with his sword , under the impression that some small bickering had broken out , only to embrace and be embraced himself , until all three were hoarse with their questions and outcries and congratulations.On their journey home through the woods Alleyne learnt their wondrous story : how , when Sir Nigel came to his senses , he with his fellow-captive had been hurried to the coast , and conveyed by sea to their captor 's castle ; how upon the way they had been taken by a Barbary rover , and how they exchanged their light captivity for a seat on a galley bench and hard labor at the pirate 's oars ; how , in the port at Barbary , Sir Nigel had slain the Moorish captain , and had swum with Aylward to a small coaster which they had taken , and so made their way to England with a rich cargo to reward them for their toils . All this Alleyne listened to , until the dark keep of Twynham towered above them in the gloaming , and they saw the red sun lying athwart the rippling Avon . No need to speak of the glad hearts at Twynham Castle that night , nor of the rich offerings from out that Moorish cargo which found their way to the chapel of Father Christopher.Sir Nigel Loring lived for many years , full of honor and laden with every blessing . He rode no more to the wars , but he found his way to every jousting within thirty miles ; and the Hampshire youth treasured it as the highest honor when a word of praise fell from him as to their management of their horses , or their breaking of their lances . So he lived and so he died , the most revered and the happiest man in all his native shire.For Sir Alleyne Edricson and for his beautiful bride the future had also naught but what was good . Twice he fought in France , and came back each time laden with honors . A high place at court was given to him , and he spent many years at Windsor under the second Richard and the fourth Henry -- -where he received the honor of the Garter , and won the name of being a brave soldier , a true-hearted gentleman , and a great lover and patron of every art and science which refines or ennobles life.As to John , he took unto himself a village maid , and settled in Lyndhurst , where his five thousand crowns made him the richest franklin for many miles around . For many years he drank his ale every night at the `` Pied Merlin , '' which was now kept by his friend Aylward , who had wedded the good widow to whom he had committed his plunder . The strong men and the bowmen of the country round used to drop in there of an evening to wrestle a fall with John or to shoot