, purporting to be a temporary measure to relieve me from the effects of overwork , and to give me the opportunity of recovering my health . None the less , it has been done , and I am no longer Professor Gilroy . The laboratory is still in my charge , but I have little doubt that that also will soon go.The fact is that my lectures had become the laughing-stock of the university . My class was crowded with students who came to see and hear what the eccentric professor would do or say next . I can not go into the detail of my humiliation . Oh , that devilish woman ! There is no depth of buffoonery and imbecility to which she has not forced me . I would begin my lecture clearly and well , but always with the sense of a coming eclipse . Then as I felt the influence I would struggle against it , striving with clenched hands and beads of sweat upon my brow to get the better of it , while the students , hearing my incoherent words and watching my contortions , would roar with laughter at the antics of their professor . And then , when she had once fairly mastered me , out would come the most outrageous things -- -silly jokes , sentiments as though I were proposing a toast , snatches of ballads , personal abuse even against some member of my class . And then in a moment my brain would clear again , and my lecture would proceed decorously to the end . No wonder that my conduct has been the talk of the colleges . No wonder that the University Senate has been compelled to take official notice of such a scandal . Oh , that devilish woman ! And the most dreadful part of it all is my own loneliness . Here I sit in a commonplace English bow-window , looking out upon a commonplace English street with its garish 'buses and its lounging policeman , and behind me there hangs a shadow which is out of all keeping with the age and place . In the home of knowledge I am weighed down and tortured by a power of which science knows nothing . No magistrate would listen to me . No paper would discuss my case . No doctor would believe my symptoms . My own most intimate friends would only look upon it as a sign of brain derangement . I am out of all touch with my kind . Oh , that devilish woman ! Let her have a care ! She may push me too far . When the law can not help a man , he may make a law for himself.She met me in the High Street yesterday evening and spoke to me . It was as well for her , perhaps , that it was not between the hedges of a lonely country road . She asked me with her cold smile whether I had been chastened yet . I did not deign to answer her . `` We must try another turn of the screw ; '' said she . Have a care , my lady , have a care ! I had her at my mercy once . Perhaps another chance may come.April 28 . The suspension of my lectureship has had the effect also of taking away her means of annoying me , and so I have enjoyed two blessed days of peace . After all , there is no reason to despair . Sympathy pours in to me from all sides , and every one agrees that it is my devotion to science and the arduous nature of my researches which have shaken my nervous system . I have had the kindest message from the council advising me to travel abroad , and expressing the confident hope that I may be able to resume all my duties by the beginning of the summer term . Nothing could be more flattering than their allusions to my career and to my services to the university . It is only in misfortune that one can test one 's own popularity . This creature may weary of tormenting me , and then all may yet be well . May God grant it ! April 29 . Our sleepy little town has had a small sensation . The only knowledge of crime which we ever have is when a rowdy undergraduate breaks a few lamps or comes to blows with a policeman . Last night , however , there was an attempt made to break-into the branch of the Bank of England , and we are all in a flutter in consequence.Parkenson , the manager , is an intimate friend of mine , and I found him very much excited when I walked round there after breakfast . Had the thieves broken into the counting-house , they would still have had the safes to reckon with , so that the defence was considerably stronger than the attack . Indeed , the latter does not appear to have ever been very formidable . Two of the lower windows have marks as if a chisel or some such instrument had been pushed under them to force them open . The police should have a good clue , for the wood-work had been done with green paint only the day before , and from the smears it is evident that some of it has found its way on to the criminal 's hands or clothes.4.30 P. M. Ah , that accursed woman ! That thrice accursed woman ! Never mind ! She shall not beat me ! No , she shall not ! But , oh , the she-devil ! She has taken my professorship . Now she would take my honor . Is there nothing I can do against her , nothing save -- -- -- Ah , but , hard pushed as I am , I can not bring myself to think of that ! It was about an hour ago that I went into my bedroom , and was brushing my hair before the glass , when suddenly my eyes lit upon something which left me so sick and cold that I sat down upon the edge of the bed and began to cry . It is many a long year since I shed tears , but all my nerve was gone , and I could but sob and sob in impotent grief and anger . There was my house jacket , the coat I usually wear after dinner , hanging on its peg by the wardrobe , with the right sleeve thickly crusted from wrist to elbow with daubs of green paint.So this was what she meant by another turn of the screw ! She had made a public imbecile of me . Now she would brand me as a criminal . This time she has failed . But how about the next ? I dare not think of it -- -and of Agatha and my poor old mother ! I wish that I were dead ! Yes , this is the other turn of the screw . And this is also what she meant , no doubt , when she said that I had not realized yet the power she has over me . I look back at my account of my conversation with her , and I see how she declared that with a slight exertion of her will her subject would be conscious , and with a stronger one unconscious . Last night I was unconscious . I could have sworn that I slept soundly in my bed without so much as a dream . And yet those stains tell me that I dressed , made my way out , attempted to open the bank windows , and returned . Was I observed ? Is it possible that some one saw me do it and followed me home ? Ah , what a hell my life has become ! I have no peace , no rest . But my patience is nearing its end.10 P. M. I have cleaned my coat with turpentine . I do not think that any one could have seen me . It was with my screw-driver that I made the marks . I found it all crusted with paint , and I have cleaned it . My head aches as if it would burst , and I have taken five grains of antipyrine . If it were not for Agatha , I should have taken fifty and had an end of it.May 3 . Three quiet days . This hell fiend is like a cat with a mouse . She lets me loose only to pounce upon me again . I am never so frightened as when every thing is still . My physical state is deplorable -- -perpetual hiccough and ptosis of the left eyelid.I have heard from the Mardens that they will be back the day after to-morrow . I do not know whether I am glad or sorry . They were safe in London . Once here they may be drawn into the miserable network in which I am myself struggling . And I must tell them of it . I can not marry Agatha so long as I know that I am not responsible for my own actions . Yes , I must tell them , even if it brings every thing to an end between us.To-night is the university ball , and I must go . God knows I never felt less in the humor for festivity , but I must not have it said that I am unfit to appear in public . If I am seen there , and have speech with some of the elders of the university it will go a long way toward showing them that it would be unjust to take my chair away from me.10 P. M. I have been to the ball . Charles Sadler and I went together , but I have come away before him . I shall wait up for him , however , for , indeed , I fear to go to sleep these nights . He is a cheery , practical fellow , and a chat with him will steady my nerves . On the whole , the evening was a great success . I talked to every one who has influence , and I think that I made them realize that my chair is not vacant quite yet . The creature was at the ball -- -unable to dance , of course , but sitting with Mrs. Wilson . Again and again her eyes rested upon me . They were almost the last things I saw before I left the room . Once , as I sat sideways to her , I watched her , and saw that her gaze was following some one else . It was Sadler , who was dancing at the time with the second Miss Thurston . To judge by her expression , it is well for him that he is not in her grip as I am . He does not know the escape he has had . I think I hear his step in the street now , and I will go down and let him in . If he will -- -- -- May 4 . Why did I break off in this way last night ? I never went down stairs , after all -- -at least , I have no recollection of doing so . But , on the other hand , I can not remember going to bed . One of my hands is greatly swollen this morning , and yet I have no remembrance of injuring it yesterday . Otherwise , I am feeling