an appearance . He was cunning , was Stangerson , and always on his guard . If he thought he could keep me off by staying indoors he was very much mistaken . I soon found out which was the window of his bedroom , and early next morning I took advantage of some ladders which were lying in the lane behind the hotel , and so made my way into his room in the grey of the dawn . I woke him up and told him that the hour had come when he was to answer for the life he had taken so long before . I described Drebber 's death to him , and I gave him the same choice of the poisoned pills . Instead of grasping at the chance of safety which that offered him , he sprang from his bed and flew at my throat . In self-defence I stabbed him to the heart . It would have been the same in any case , for Providence would never have allowed his guilty hand to pick out anything but the poison . `` I have little more to say , and it 's as well , for I am about done up . I went on cabbing it for a day or so , intending to keep at it until I could save enough to take me back to America . I was standing in the yard when a ragged youngster asked if there was a cabby there called Jefferson Hope , and said that his cab was wanted by a gentleman at 221B , Baker Street . I went round , suspecting no harm , and the next thing I knew , this young man here had the bracelets on my wrists , and as neatly snackled 27 as ever I saw in my life . That 's the whole of my story , gentlemen . You may consider me to be a murderer ; but I hold that I am just as much an officer of justice as you are . `` So thrilling had the man 's narrative been , and his manner was so impressive that we had sat silent and absorbed . Even the professional detectives , blaséas they were in every detail of crime , appeared to be keenly interested in the man 's story . When he finished we sat for some minutes in a stillness which was only broken by the scratching of Lestrade 's pencil as he gave the finishing touches to his shorthand account . `` There is only one point on which I should like a little more information , '' Sherlock Holmes said at last . `` Who was your accomplice who came for the ring which I advertised ? `` The prisoner winked at my friend jocosely . `` I can tell my own secrets , '' he said , `` but I do n't get other people into trouble . I saw your advertisement , and I thought it might be a plant , or it might be the ring which I wanted . My friend volunteered to go and see . I think you 'll own he did it smartly . `` `` Not a doubt of that , '' said Holmes heartily . `` Now , gentlemen , '' the Inspector remarked gravely , `` the forms of the law must be complied with . On Thursday the prisoner will be brought before the magistrates , and your attendance will be required . Until then I will be responsible for him . '' He rang the bell as he spoke , and Jefferson Hope was led off by a couple of warders , while my friend and I made our way out of the Station and took a cab back to Baker Street.WE had all been warned to appear before the magistrates upon the Thursday ; but when the Thursday came there was no occasion for our testimony . A higher Judge had taken the matter in hand , and Jefferson Hope had been summoned before a tribunal where strict justice would be meted out to him . On the very night after his capture the aneurism burst , and he was found in the morning stretched upon the floor of the cell , with a placid smile upon his face , as though he had been able in his dying moments to look back upon a useful life , and on work well done . `` Gregson and Lestrade will be wild about his death , '' Holmes remarked , as we chatted it over next evening . `` Where will their grand advertisement be now ? `` `` I do n't see that they had very much to do with his capture , '' I answered . `` What you do in this world is a matter of no consequence , '' returned my companion , bitterly . `` The question is , what can you make people believe that you have done . Never mind , '' he continued , more brightly , after a pause . `` I would not have missed the investigation for anything . There has been no better case within my recollection . Simple as it was , there were several most instructive points about it. '' '' Simple ! '' I ejaculated . `` Well , really , it can hardly be described as otherwise , '' said Sherlock Holmes , smiling at my surprise . `` The proof of its intrinsic simplicity is , that without any help save a few very ordinary deductions I was able to lay my hand upon the criminal within three days . `` `` That is true , '' said I . `` I have already explained to you that what is out of the common is usually a guide rather than a hindrance . In solving a problem of this sort , the grand thing is to be able to reason backwards . That is a very useful accomplishment , and a very easy one , but people do not practise it much . In the every-day affairs of life it is more useful to reason forwards , and so the other comes to be neglected . There are fifty who can reason synthetically for one who can reason analytically . `` `` I confess , '' said I , `` that I do not quite follow you . `` `` I hardly expected that you would . Let me see if I can make it clearer . Most people , if you describe a train of events to them , will tell you what the result would be . They can put those events together in their minds , and argue from them that something will come to pass . There are few people , however , who , if you told them a result , would be able to evolve from their own inner consciousness what the steps were which led up to that result . This power is what I mean when I talk of reasoning backwards , or analytically . `` `` I understand , '' said I . `` Now this was a case in which you were given the result and had to find everything else for yourself . Now let me endeavour to show you the different steps in my reasoning . To begin at the beginning . I approached the house , as you know , on foot , and with my mind entirely free from all impressions . I naturally began by examining the roadway , and there , as I have already explained to you , I saw clearly the marks of a cab , which , I ascertained by inquiry , must have been there during the night . I satisfied myself that it was a cab and not a private carriage by the narrow gauge of the wheels . The ordinary London growler is considerably less wide than a gentleman 's brougham . `` This was the first point gained . I then walked slowly down the garden path , which happened to be composed of a clay soil , peculiarly suitable for taking impressions . No doubt it appeared to you to be a mere trampled line of slush , but to my trained eyes every mark upon its surface had a meaning . There is no branch of detective science which is so important and so much neglected as the art of tracing footsteps . Happily , I have always laid great stress upon it , and much practice has made it second nature to me . I saw the heavy footmarks of the constables , but I saw also the track of the two men who had first passed through the garden . It was easy to tell that they had been before the others , because in places their marks had been entirely obliterated by the others coming upon the top of them . In this way my second link was formed , which told me that the nocturnal visitors were two in number , one remarkable for his height ( as I calculated from the length of his stride ) , and the other fashionably dressed , to judge from the small and elegant impression left by his boots . `` On entering the house this last inference was confirmed . My well-booted man lay before me . The tall one , then , had done the murder , if murder there was . There was no wound upon the dead man 's person , but the agitated expression upon his face assured me that he had foreseen his fate before it came upon him . Men who die from heart disease , or any sudden natural cause , never by any chance exhibit agitation upon their features . Having sniffed the dead man 's lips I detected a slightly sour smell , and I came to the conclusion that he had had poison forced upon him . Again , I argued that it had been forced upon him from the hatred and fear expressed upon his face . By the method of exclusion , I had arrived at this result , for no other hypothesis would meet the facts . Do not imagine that it was a very unheard of idea . The forcible administration of poison is by no means a new thing in criminal annals . The cases of Dolsky in Odessa , and of Leturier in Montpellier , will occur at once to any toxicologist . `` And now came the great question as to the reason why . Robbery had not been the object of the murder , for nothing was taken . Was it politics , then , or was it a woman ? That was the question which confronted me . I was inclined from the first to the latter supposition . Political assassins are only too glad to do their work and to fly . This murder had , on the contrary , been done most deliberately , and the perpetrator had left his tracks all over the room , showing that he had been there all the time . It must have been a private wrong , and not a political one , which called for such a methodical revenge . When the inscription was discovered upon the wall I was more inclined than ever to my opinion . The thing was too evidently a blind . When the ring was found , however , it settled the question . Clearly the murderer had used it to remind his victim of some dead or absent woman . It was at this point that I asked Gregson whether he had enquired in his telegram to Cleveland as to any particular point in Mr. Drebber 's former career