the huddled bundle upon the deck . It straightened itself into a little black man -- -the smallest I have ever seen -- -with a great , misshapen head and a shock of tangled , dishevelled hair . Holmes had already drawn his revolver , and I whipped out mine at the sight of this savage , distorted creature . He was wrapped in some sort of dark ulster or blanket , which left only his face exposed ; but that face was enough to give a man a sleepless night . Never have I seen features so deeply marked with all bestiality and cruelty . His small eyes glowed and burned with a sombre light , and his thick lips were writhed back from his teeth , which grinned and chattered at us with a half animal fury . `` Fire if he raises his hand , '' said Holmes , quietly . We were within a boat's-length by this time , and almost within touch of our quarry . I can see the two of them now as they stood , the white man with his legs far apart , shrieking out curses , and the unhallowed dwarf with his hideous face , and his strong yellow teeth gnashing at us in the light of our lantern.It was well that we had so clear a view of him . Even as we looked he plucked out from under his covering a short , round piece of wood , like a school-ruler , and clapped it to his lips . Our pistols rang out together . He whirled round , threw up his arms , and with a kind of choking cough fell sideways into the stream . I caught one glimpse of his venomous , menacing eyes amid the white swirl of the waters . At the same moment the wooden-legged man threw himself upon the rudder and put it hard down , so that his boat made straight in for the southern bank , while we shot past her stern , only clearing her by a few feet . We were round after her in an instant , but she was already nearly at the bank . It was a wild and desolate place , where the moon glimmered upon a wide expanse of marsh-land , with pools of stagnant water and beds of decaying vegetation . The launch with a dull thud ran up upon the mud-bank , with her bow in the air and her stern flush with the water . The fugitive sprang out , but his stump instantly sank its whole length into the sodden soil . In vain he struggled and writhed . Not one step could he possibly take either forwards or backwards . He yelled in impotent rage , and kicked frantically into the mud with his other foot , but his struggles only bored his wooden pin the deeper into the sticky bank . When we brought our launch alongside he was so firmly anchored that it was only by throwing the end of a rope over his shoulders that we were able to haul him out , and to drag him , like some evil fish , over our side . The two Smiths , father and son , sat sullenly in their launch , but came aboard meekly enough when commanded . The Aurora herself we hauled off and made fast to our stern . A solid iron chest of Indian workmanship stood upon the deck . This , there could be no question , was the same that had contained the ill-omened treasure of the Sholtos . There was no key , but it was of considerable weight , so we transferred it carefully to our own little cabin . As we steamed slowly up-stream again , we flashed our search-light in every direction , but there was no sign of the Islander . Somewhere in the dark ooze at the bottom of the Thames lie the bones of that strange visitor to our shores . `` See here , '' said Holmes , pointing to the wooden hatchway . `` We were hardly quick enough with our pistols . '' There , sure enough , just behind where we had been standing , stuck one of those murderous darts which we knew so well . It must have whizzed between us at the instant that we fired . Holmes smiled at it and shrugged his shoulders in his easy fashion , but I confess that it turned me sick to think of the horrible death which had passed so close to us that night.Our captive sat in the cabin opposite to the iron box which he had done so much and waited so long to gain . He was a sunburned , reckless-eyed fellow , with a net-work of lines and wrinkles all over his mahogany features , which told of a hard , open-air life . There was a singular prominence about his bearded chin which marked a man who was not to be easily turned from his purpose . His age may have been fifty or thereabouts , for his black , curly hair was thickly shot with gray . His face in repose was not an unpleasing one , though his heavy brows and aggressive chin gave him , as I had lately seen , a terrible expression when moved to anger . He sat now with his handcuffed hands upon his lap , and his head sunk upon his breast , while he looked with his keen , twinkling eyes at the box which had been the cause of his ill-doings . It seemed to me that there was more sorrow than anger in his rigid and contained countenance . Once he looked up at me with a gleam of something like humor in his eyes . `` Well , Jonathan Small , '' said Holmes , lighting a cigar , `` I am sorry that it has come to this . `` `` And so am I , sir , '' he answered , frankly . `` I do n't believe that I can swing over the job . I give you my word on the book that I never raised hand against Mr. Sholto . It was that little hell-hound Tonga who shot one of his cursed darts into him . I had no part in it , sir . I was as grieved as if it had been my blood-relation . I welted the little devil with the slack end of the rope for it , but it was done , and I could not undo it again . `` `` Have a cigar , '' said Holmes ; `` and you had best take a pull out of my flask , for you are very wet . How could you expect so small and weak a man as this black fellow to overpower Mr. Sholto and hold him while you were climbing the rope ? `` `` You seem to know as much about it as if you were there , sir . The truth is that I hoped to find the room clear . I knew the habits of the house pretty well , and it was the time when Mr. Sholto usually went down to his supper . I shall make no secret of the business . The best defence that I can make is just the simple truth . Now , if it had been the old major I would have swung for him with a light heart . I would have thought no more of knifing him than of smoking this cigar . But it 's cursed hard that I should be lagged over this young Sholto , with whom I had no quarrel whatever . `` `` You are under the charge of Mr. Athelney Jones , of Scotland Yard . He is going to bring you up to my rooms , and I shall ask you for a true account of the matter . You must make a clean breast of it , for if you do I hope that I may be of use to you . I think I can prove that the poison acts so quickly that the man was dead before ever you reached the room . `` `` That he was , sir . I never got such a turn in my life as when I saw him grinning at me with his head on his shoulder as I climbed through the window . It fairly shook me , sir . I 'd have half killed Tonga for it if he had not scrambled off . That was how he came to leave his club , and some of his darts too , as he tells me , which I dare say helped to put you on our track ; though how you kept on it is more than I can tell . I do n't feel no malice against you for it . But it does seem a queer thing , '' he added , with a bitter smile , `` that I who have a fair claim to nigh upon half a million of money should spend the first half of my life building a breakwater in the Andamans , and am like to spend the other half digging drains at Dartmoor . It was an evil day for me when first I clapped eyes upon the merchant Achmet and had to do with the Agra treasure , which never brought anything but a curse yet upon the man who owned it . To him it brought murder , to Major Sholto it brought fear and guilt , to me it has meant slavery for life . `` At this moment Athelney Jones thrust his broad face and heavy shoulders into the tiny cabin . `` Quite a family party , '' he remarked . `` I think I shall have a pull at that flask , Holmes . Well , I think we may all congratulate each other . Pity we did n't take the other alive ; but there was no choice . I say , Holmes , you must confess that you cut it rather fine . It was all we could do to overhaul her . `` `` All is well that ends well , '' said Holmes . `` But I certainly did not know that the Aurora was such a clipper . `` `` Smith says she is one of the fastest launches on the river , and that if he had had another man to help him with the engines we should never have caught her . He swears he knew nothing of this Norwood business . `` `` Neither he did , '' cried our prisoner , -- - '' not a word . I chose his launch because I heard that she was a flier . We told him nothing , but we paid him well , and he was to get something handsome if we reached our vessel , the Esmeralda , at Gravesend , outward bound for the Brazils . `` `` Well , if he has done no wrong we shall see that no wrong comes to him . If we are pretty quick in catching our men , we are not so quick in condemning them . '' It was amusing to notice how the consequential Jones was already beginning to give himself airs on the strength of the capture . From the slight smile which played over Sherlock Holmes 's face , I could see that the speech had not been lost upon him . `` We will be at Vauxhall Bridge presently , '' said Jones , `` and shall land you , Dr. Watson , with the treasure-box . I need hardly tell you that I am taking