, and antlered heads bristled out from among the rows of muskets which were arranged along the wall . A broad rough-hewn maple table ran down the centre of this apartment , and on this there was soon set a venison pie , a side of calvered salmon , and a huge cranberry tart , to which the hungry travellers did full justice . The seigneur explained that he had already supped , but having allowed himself to be persuaded into joining them , he ended by eating more than Ephraim Savage , drinking more than Du Lhut , and finally by singing a very amorous little Frenchchansonwith a tra-le-ra chorus , the words of which , fortunately for the peace of the company , were entirely unintelligible to the Bostonian . `` Madame is taking her refection in my lady 's boudoir , '' he remarked , when the dishes had been removed . `` You may bring up a bottle of Frontiniac from bin thirteen , Theuriet . Oh , you will see , gentlemen , that even in the wilds we have a little , a very little , which is perhaps not altogether bad . And so you come from Versailles , De Catinat ? It was built since my day , but how I remember the old life of the court at St. Germain , before Louis turned serious ! Ah , what innocent happy days they were when Madame de Nevailles had to bar the windows of the maids of honour to keep out the king , and we all turned out eight deep on to the grass plot for our morning duel ! By Saint Denis , I have not quite forgotten the trick of the wrist yet , and , old as I am , I should be none the worse for a little breather . '' He strutted in his stately fashion over to where a rapier and dagger hung upon the wall , and began to make passes at the door , darting in and out , warding off imaginary blows with his poniard , and stamping his feet with little cries of `` Punto ! reverso ! stoccata ! dritta ! mandritta ! '' and all the jargon of the fencing schools . Finally he rejoined them , breathing heavily and with his wig awry . `` That was our old exercise , '' said he . `` Doubtless you young bloods have improved upon it , and yet it was good enough for the Spaniards at Rocroy and at one or two other places which I could mention . But they still see life at the court , I understand . There are still love passages and blood lettings . How has Lauzun prospered in his wooing of Mademoiselle de Montpensier ? Was it proved that Madame de Clermont had bought a phial from Le Vie , the poison woman , two days before the soup disagreed so violently with monsieur ? What did the Due de Biron do when his nephew ran away with the duchess ? Is it true that he raised his allowance to fifty thousand livres for having done it ? '' Such were the two-year-old questions which had not been answered yet upon the banks of the Richelieu River . Long into the hours of the night , when his comrades were already snoring under their blankets , De Catinat , blinking and yawning , was still engaged in trying to satisfy the curiosity of the old courtier , and to bring him up to date in all the most minute gossip of Versailles.Two days were spent by the travellers at the seigneury of Sainte Marie , and they would very willingly have spent longer , for the quarters were comfortable and the welcome warm , but already the reds of autumn were turning to brown , and they knew how suddenly the ice and snow come in those northern lands , and how impossible it would be to finish their journey if winter were once fairly upon them . The old nobleman had sent his scouts by land and by water , but there were no signs of the Iroquois upon the eastern banks , so that it was clear that De Lhut had been mistaken . Over on the other side , however , the high gray plumes of smoke still streamed up above the trees as a sign that their enemies were not very far off . All day from the manor-house windows and from the stockade they could see those danger signals which reminded them that a horrible death lurked ever at their elbow.The refugees were rested now and refreshed , and of one mind about pushing on . `` If the snow comes , it will be a thousand times more dangerous , '' saidAmos , `` for we shall leave a track then that a papoose could follow . `` `` And why should we fear ? '' urged old Ephraim . `` Truly this is a desert of salt , even though it lead to the vale ofHinnom , but we shall be borne up against these sons of Jeroboam.Steer a straight course , lad , and jam your helm , for the pilot will seeyou safe . `` `` And I am not frightened , Amory , and I am quite rested now , '' said Adele . `` We shall be so much more happy when we are in the English Provinces , for even now , how do we know that that dreadful monk may not come with orders to drag us back to Quebec and Paris ? `` It was indeed very possible that the vindictive Franciscan , when satisfied that they had not ascended to Montreal , or remained at Three Rivers , might seek them on the banks of the Richelieu . When De Catinat thought of how he passed them in his great canoe that morning , his eager face protruded , and his dark body swinging in time to the paddles , he felt that the danger which his wife suggested was not only possible but imminent . The seigneur was his friend , but the seigneur could not disobey the governor 's orders . A great hand , stretching all the way from Versailles , seemed to hang over them , even here in the heart of the virgin forest , ready to snatch them up and carry them back into degradation and misery . Better all the perils of the woods than that ! But the seigneur and his son , who knew nothing of their pressing reasons for haste , were strenuous in urging De Catinat the other way , and in this they were supported by the silent Du Lhut , whose few muttered words were always more weighty than the longest speech , for he never spoke save about that of which he was a master . `` You have seen my little place , '' said the old nobleman , with a wave of his beruffled ring-covered hand . `` It is not what I should wish it , but such as it is , it is most heartily yours for the winter , if you and your comrades would honour me by remaining . As to madame , I doubt not that my own dame and she will find plenty to amuse and occupy them , which reminds me , De Catinat , that you have not yet been presented . Theuriet , go to your mistress and inform her that I request her to be so good as to come to us in the hall of the dais . `` De Catinat was too seasoned to be easily startled , but he was somewhat taken aback when the lady , to whom the old nobleman always referred in terms of exaggerated respect , proved to be as like a full-blooded Indian squaw as the hall of the dais was to a French barn . She was dressed , it was true , in a bodice of scarlet taffeta with a black skirt , silver-buckled shoes , and a scented pomander ball dangling by a silver chain from her girdle , but her face was of the colour of the bark of the Scotch fir , while her strong nose and harsh mouth , with the two plaits of coarse black hair which dangled down her back , left no possible doubt as to her origin . `` Allow me to present you , Monsieur de Catinat , '' said the Seigneur de Sainte Marie solemnly , `` to my wife , Onega de la Noue de Sainte Marie , chatelaine by right of marriage to this seigneury , and also to the Chateau d'Andelys in Normandy , and to the estate of Varennes in Provence , while retaining in her own right the hereditary chieftainship on the distaff side of the nation of the Onondagas . My angel , I have been endeavouring to persuade our friends to remain with us at Sainte Marie instead of journeying on to Lake Champlain . `` `` At least leave your White Lily at Sainte Marie , '' said the dusky princess , speaking in excellent French , and clasping with her ruddy fingers the ivory hand of Adele . `` We will hold her safe for you until the ice softens , and the leaves and the partridge berries come once more . I know my people , monsieur , and I tell you that the woods are full of murder , and that it is not for nothing that the leaves are the colour of blood , for death lurks behind every tree . `` De Catinat was more moved by the impressive manner of his hostess than by any of the other warnings which he had received . Surely she , if anyone , must be able to read the signs of the times . `` I know not what to do ! '' he cried in despair . `` I must go on , and yet how can I expose her to these perils ? I would fain stay the winter , but you must take my word for it , sir , that it is not possible . `` `` Du Lhut , you know how things should be ordered , '' said the seigneur . `` What should you advise my friend to do , since he is so set upon getting to the English Provinces before the winter comes ? `` The dark silent pioneer stroked his beard with his hand as he pondered over the question . `` There is but one way , '' said he at last , `` though even in it there is danger . The woods are safer than the river , for the reeds are full ofcachedcanoes . Five leagues from here is the blockhouse of Poitou , and fifteen miles beyond , that of Auvergne . We will go to-morrow to Poitou through the woods and see if all be safe . I will go with you , and I give you my word that if the Iroquois are there , Greysolon du Lhut will know it . The lady we shall leave here , and if we find that all is safe we shall come back for her . Then in the same fashion we shall advance to Auvergne , and there you must wait until you hear where their war-parties are . It is in my mind that it will not be very long before we know. '' '' What ! You would part us ! '' cried Adele aghast . `` It is best , my sister , '' said Onega , passing her arm caressingly round her . `` You can not know the