. A pretty world it would be with all the women out of it . `` `` Heaven forfend that such a thing should come to pass ! '' said Alleyne . `` Amen and amen ! But thou art a pretty lad , and the prettier for thy modest ways . It is easy to see from thy cheek that thou hast not spent thy days in the rain and the heat and the wind , as my poor Wat hath been forced to do . `` `` I have indeed seen little of life , good dame . `` `` Wilt find nothing in it to pay for the loss of thy own freshness . Here are the clothes , and Peter can leave them when next he comes this way . Holy Virgin ! see the dust upon thy doublet ! It were easy to see that there is no woman to tend to thee . So ! -- -that is better . Now buss me , boy . `` Alleyne stooped and kissed her , for the kiss was the common salutation of the age , and , as Erasmus long afterwards remarked , more used in England than in any other country . Yet it sent the blood to his temples again , and he wondered , as he turned away , what the Abbot Berghersh would have answered to so frank an invitation . He was still tingling from this new experience when he came out upon the high-road and saw a sight which drove all other thoughts from his mind.Some way down from where he had left him the unfortunate Peter was stamping and raving tenfold worse than before . Now , however , instead of the great white cloak , he had no clothes on at all , save a short woollen shirt and a pair of leather shoes . Far down the road a long-legged figure was running , with a bundle under one arm and the other hand to his side , like a man who laughs until he is sore . `` See him ! '' yelled Peter . `` Look to him ! You shall be my witness . He shall see Winchester jail for this . See where he goes with my cloak under his arm ! `` `` Who then ? '' cried Alleyne . `` Who but that cursed brother John . He hath not left me clothes enough to make a gallybagger . The double thief hath cozened me out of my gown . `` `` Stay though , my friend , it was his gown , '' objected Alleyne . `` It boots not . He hath them all -- -gown , jerkin , hosen and all . Gramercy to him that he left me the shirt and the shoon . I doubt not that he will be back for them anon . `` `` But how came this ? '' asked Alleyne , open-eyed with astonishment . `` Are those the clothes ? For dear charity 's sake give them to me . Not the Pope himself shall have these from me , though he sent the whole college of cardinals to ask it . How came it ? Why , you had scarce gone ere this loathly John came running back again , and , when I oped mouth to reproach him , he asked me whether it was indeed likely that a man of prayer would leave his own godly raiment in order to take a layman 's jerkin . He had , he said , but gone for a while that I might be the freer for my devotions . On this I plucked off the gown , and he with much show of haste did begin to undo his points ; but when I threw his frock down he clipped it up and ran off all untrussed , leaving me in this sorry plight . He laughed so the while , like a great croaking frog , that I might have caught him had my breath not been as short as his legs were long . `` The young man listened to this tale of wrong with all the seriousness that he could maintain ; but at the sight of the pursy red-faced man and the dignity with which he bore him , the laughter came so thick upon him that he had to lean up against a tree-trunk . The fuller looked sadly and gravely at him ; but finding that he still laughed , he bowed with much mock politeness and stalked onwards in his borrowed clothes . Alleyne watched him until he was small in the distance , and then , wiping the tears from his eyes , he set off briskly once more upon his journey.The road along which he travelled was scarce as populous as most other roads in the kingdom , and far less so than those which lie between the larger towns . Yet from time to time Alleyne met other wayfarers , and more than once was overtaken by strings of pack mules and horsemen journeying in the same direction as himself . Once a begging friar came limping along in a brown habit , imploring in a most dolorous voice to give him a single groat to buy bread wherewith to save himself from impending death . Alleyne passed him swiftly by , for he had learned from the monks to have no love for the wandering friars , and , besides , there was a great half-gnawed mutton bone sticking out of his pouch to prove him a liar . Swiftly as he went , however , he could not escape the curse of the four blessed evangelists which the mendicant howled behind him . So dreadful are his execrations that the frightened lad thrust his fingers into his ear-holes , and ran until the fellow was but a brown smirch upon the yellow road.Further on , at the edge of the woodland , he came upon a chapman and his wife , who sat upon a fallen tree . He had put his pack down as a table , and the two of them were devouring a great pasty , and washing it down with some drink from a stone jar . The chapman broke a rough jest as he passed , and the woman called shrilly to Alleyne to come and join them , on which the man , turning suddenly from mirth to wrath , began to belabor her with his cudgel . Alleyne hastened on , lest he make more mischief , and his heart was heavy as lead within him . Look where he would , he seemed to see nothing but injustice and violence and the hardness of man to man.But even as he brooded sadly over it and pined for the sweet peace of the Abbey , he came on an open space dotted with holly bushes , where was the strangest sight that he had yet chanced upon . Near to the pathway lay a long clump of greenery , and from behind this there stuck straight up into the air four human legs clad in parti-colored hosen , yellow and black . Strangest of all was when a brisk tune struck suddenly up and the four legs began to kick and twitter in time to the music . Walking on tiptoe round the bushes , he stood in amazement to see two men bounding about on their heads , while they played , the one a viol and the other a pipe , as merrily and as truly as though they were seated in a choir . Alleyne crossed himself as he gazed at this unnatural sight , and could scarce hold his ground with a steady face , when the two dancers , catching sight of him , came bouncing in his direction . A spear 's length from him , they each threw a somersault into the air , and came down upon their feet with smirking faces and their hands over their hearts . `` A guerdon -- -a guerdon , my knight of the staring eyes ! '' cried one . `` A gift , my prince ! '' shouted the other . `` Any trifle will serve -- -a purse of gold , or even a jewelled goblet . `` Alleyne thought of what he had read of demoniac possession -- -the jumpings , the twitchings , the wild talk . It was in his mind to repeat over the exorcism proper to such attacks ; but the two burst out a-laughing at his scared face , and turning on to their heads once more , clapped their heels in derision . `` Hast never seen tumblers before ? '' asked the elder , a black-browed , swarthy man , as brown and supple as a hazel twig . `` Why shrink from us , then , as though we were the spawn of the Evil One ? `` `` Why shrink , my honey-bird ? Why so afeard , my sweet cinnamon ? '' exclaimed the other , a loose-jointed lanky youth with a dancing , roguish eye . `` Truly , sirs , it is a new sight to me , '' the clerk answered . `` When I saw your four legs above the bush I could scarce credit my own eyes . Why is it that you do this thing ? `` `` A dry question to answer , '' cried the younger , coming back on to his feet . `` A most husky question , my fair bird ! But how ? A flask , a flask ! -- -by all that is wonderful ! '' He shot out his hand as he spoke , and plucking Alleyne 's bottle out of his scrip , he deftly knocked the neck off , and poured the half of it down his throat . The rest he handed to his comrade , who drank the wine , and then , to the clerk 's increasing amazement , made a show of swallowing the bottle , with such skill that Alleyne seemed to see it vanish down his throat . A moment later , however , he flung it over his head , and caught it bottom downwards upon the calf of his left leg . `` We thank you for the wine , kind sir , '' said he , `` and for the ready courtesy wherewith you offered it . Touching your question , we may tell you that we are strollers and jugglers , who , having performed with much applause at Winchester fair , are now on our way to the great Michaelmas market at Ringwood . As our art is a very fine and delicate one , however , we can not let a day go by without exercising ourselves in it , to which end we choose some quiet and sheltered spot where we may break our journey . Here you find us ; and we can not wonder that you , who are new to tumbling , should be astounded , since many great barons , earls , marshals and knights , who have wandered as far as the Holy Land , are of one mind in saying that they have never seen a more noble or gracious performance . If you will be pleased to sit upon that stump , we will now continue our exercise . `` Alleyne sat down willingly as directed with two great bundles on either side of him which contained the strollers ' dresses -- -doublets of flame-colored silk and girdles of leather , spangled with brass and tin . The jugglers were on their heads once more , bounding about with rigid necks , playing the while