her soon . I said a word or two to Barker -- -he took it all in at a glance -- -and we waited for the rest to come along . But there was no sign of them . Then we understood that they could hear nothing , and that all that had happened was known only to ourselves . `` It was at that instant that the idea came to me . I was fairly dazzled by the brilliance of it . The man 's sleeve had slipped up and there was the branded mark of the lodge upon his forearm . See here ! `` The man whom we had known as Douglas turned up his own coat and cuff to show a brown triangle within a circle exactly like that which we had seen upon the dead man . `` It was the sight of that which started me on it . I seemed to see it all clear at a glance . There were his height and hair and figure , about the same as my own . No one could swear to his face , poor devil ! I brought down this suit of clothes , and in a quarter of an hour Barker and I had put my dressing gown on him and he lay as you found him . We tied all his things into a bundle , and I weighted them with the only weight I could find and put them through the window . The card he had meant to lay upon my body was lying beside his own . `` My rings were put on his finger ; but when it came to the wedding ring , '' he held out his muscular hand , `` you can see for yourselves that I had struck the limit . I have not moved it since the day I was married , and it would have taken a file to get it off . I do n't know , anyhow , that I should have cared to part with it ; but if I had wanted to I could n't . So we just had to leave that detail to take care of itself . On the other hand , I brought a bit of plaster down and put it where I am wearing one myself at this instant . You slipped up there , Mr. Holmes , clever as you are ; for if you had chanced to take off that plaster you would have found no cut underneath it . `` Well , that was the situation . If I could lie low for a while and then get away where I could be joined by my 'widow ' we should have a chance at last of living in peace for the rest of our lives . These devils would give me no rest so long as I was above ground ; but if they saw in the papers that Baldwin had got his man , there would be an end of all my troubles . I had n't much time to make it all clear to Barker and to my wife ; but they understood enough to be able to help me . I knew all about this hiding place , so did Ames ; but it never entered his head to connect it with the matter . I retired into it , and it was up to Barker to do the rest . `` I guess you can fill in for yourselves what he did . He opened the window and made the mark on the sill to give an idea of how the murderer escaped . It was a tall order , that ; but as the bridge was up there was no other way . Then , when everything was fixed , he rang the bell for all he was worth . What happened afterward you know . And so , gentlemen , you can do what you please ; but I 've told you the truth and the whole truth , so help me God ! What I ask you now is how do I stand by the English law ? `` There was a silence which was broken by Sherlock Holmes . `` The English law is in the main a just law . You will get no worse than your deserts from that , Mr. Douglas . But I would ask you how did this man know that you lived here , or how to get into your house , or where to hide to get you ? `` `` I know nothing of this . `` Holmes 's face was very white and grave . `` The story is not over yet , I fear , '' said he . `` You may find worse dangers than the English law , or even than your enemies from America . I see trouble before you , Mr. Douglas . You 'll take my advice and still be on your guard . `` And now , my long-suffering readers , I will ask you to come away with me for a time , far from the Sussex Manor House of Birlstone , and far also from the year of grace in which we made our eventful journey which ended with the strange story of the man who had been known as John Douglas . I wish you to journey back some twenty years in time , and westward some thousands of miles in space , that I may lay before you a singular and terrible narrative -- -so singular and so terrible that you may find it hard to believe that even as I tell it , even so did it occur.Do not think that I intrude one story before another is finished . As you read on you will find that this is not so . And when I have detailed those distant events and you have solved this mystery of the past , we shall meet once more in those rooms on Baker Street , where this , like so many other wonderful happenings , will find its end.It was the fourth of February in the year 1875 . It had been a severe winter , and the snow lay deep in the gorges of the Gilmerton Mountains . The steam ploughs had , however , kept the railroad open , and the evening train which connects the long line of coal-mining and iron-working settlements was slowly groaning its way up the steep gradients which lead from Stagville on the plain to Vermissa , the central township which lies at the head of Vermissa Valley . From this point the track sweeps downward to Bartons Crossing , Helmdale , and the purely agricultural county of Merton . It was a single track railroad ; but at every siding -- -and they were numerous -- -long lines of trucks piled with coal and iron ore told of the hidden wealth which had brought a rude population and a bustling life to this most desolate corner of the United States of America.For desolate it was ! Little could the first pioneer who had traversed it have ever imagined that the fairest prairies and the most lush water pastures were valueless compared to this gloomy land of black crag and tangled forest . Above the dark and often scarcely penetrable woods upon their flanks , the high , bare crowns of the mountains , white snow , and jagged rock towered upon each flank , leaving a long , winding , tortuous valley in the centre . Up this the little train was slowly crawling.The oil lamps had just been lit in the leading passenger car , a long , bare carriage in which some twenty or thirty people were seated . The greater number of these were workmen returning from their day 's toil in the lower part of the valley . At least a dozen , by their grimed faces and the safety lanterns which they carried , proclaimed themselves miners . These sat smoking in a group and conversed in low voices , glancing occasionally at two men on the opposite side of the car , whose uniforms and badges showed them to be policemen.Several women of the labouring class and one or two travellers who might have been small local storekeepers made up the rest of the company , with the exception of one young man in a corner by himself . It is with this man that we are concerned . Take a good look at him ; for he is worth it.He is a fresh-complexioned , middle-sized young man , not far , one would guess , from his thirtieth year . He has large , shrewd , humorous gray eyes which twinkle inquiringly from time to time as he looks round through his spectacles at the people about him . It is easy to see that he is of a sociable and possibly simple disposition , anxious to be friendly to all men . Anyone could pick him at once as gregarious in his habits and communicative in his nature , with a quick wit and a ready smile . And yet the man who studied him more closely might discern a certain firmness of jaw and grim tightness about the lips which would warn him that there were depths beyond , and that this pleasant , brown-haired young Irishman might conceivably leave his mark for good or evil upon any society to which he was introduced.Having made one or two tentative remarks to the nearest miner , and receiving only short , gruff replies , the traveller resigned himself to uncongenial silence , staring moodily out of the window at the fading landscape.It was not a cheering prospect . Through the growing gloom there pulsed the red glow of the furnaces on the sides of the hills . Great heaps of slag and dumps of cinders loomed up on each side , with the high shafts of the collieries towering above them . Huddled groups of mean , wooden houses , the windows of which were beginning to outline themselves in light , were scattered here and there along the line , and the frequent halting places were crowded with their swarthy inhabitants.The iron and coal valleys of the Vermissa district were no resorts for the leisured or the cultured . Everywhere there were stern signs of the crudest battle of life , the rude work to be done , and the rude , strong workers who did it.The young traveller gazed out into this dismal country with a face of mingled repulsion and interest , which showed that the scene was new to him . At intervals he drew from his pocket a bulky letter to which he referred , and on the margins of which he scribbled some notes . Once from the back of his waist he produced something which one would hardly have expected to find in the possession of so mild-mannered a man . It was a navy revolver of the largest size . As he turned it slantwise to the light , the glint upon the rims of the copper shells within the drum showed that it was fully loaded . He quickly restored it to his secret pocket , but not before it had been observed by a working man who had seated himself upon the adjoining bench . `` Hullo , mate ! '' said he . `` You seem heeled and ready . `` The young man smiled with an air of embarrassment . `` Yes , '' said he , `` we need them sometimes in the place I come from . `` `` And where may that be ? `` `` I 'm last from Chicago . `` `` A stranger in these parts ? ''