, '' continued the detective . `` I found her very pale and distressed . Her daughter was in the room , too -- -an uncommonly fine girl she is , too ; she was looking red about the eyes and her lips trembled as I spoke to her . That did n't escape my notice . I began to smell a rat . You know the feeling , Mr. Sherlock Holmes , when you come upon the right scent -- -a kind of thrill in your nerves . 'Have you heard of the mysterious death of your late boarder Mr. Enoch J. Drebber , of Cleveland ? ' I asked . `` The mother nodded . She did n't seem able to get out a word . The daughter burst into tears . I felt more than ever that these people knew something of the matter . `` 'At what o'clock did Mr. Drebber leave your house for the train ? ' I asked . `` 'At eight o'clock , ' she said , gulping in her throat to keep down her agitation . 'His secretary , Mr. Stangerson , said that there were two trains -- -one at 9.15 and one at 11 . He was to catch the first . 14 '' 'And was that the last which you saw of him ? ' '' A terrible change came over the woman 's face as I asked the question . Her features turned perfectly livid . It was some seconds before she could get out the single word 'Yes ' -- -and when it did come it was in a husky unnatural tone . `` There was silence for a moment , and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voice . `` 'No good can ever come of falsehood , mother , ' she said . 'Let us be frank with this gentleman . Wedidsee Mr. Drebber again . ' '' 'God forgive you ! ' cried Madame Charpentier , throwing up her hands and sinking back in her chair . 'You have murdered your brother . ' '' 'Arthur would rather that we spoke the truth , ' the girl answered firmly . `` 'You had best tell me all about it now , ' I said . 'Half-confidences are worse than none . Besides , you do not know how much we know of it . ' '' 'On your head be it , Alice ! ' cried her mother ; and then , turning to me , 'I will tell you all , sir . Do not imagine that my agitation on behalf of my son arises from any fear lest he should have had a hand in this terrible affair . He is utterly innocent of it . My dread is , however , that in your eyes and in the eyes of others he may appear to be compromised . That however is surely impossible . His high character , his profession , his antecedents would all forbid it . ' '' 'Your best way is to make a clean breast of the facts , ' I answered . 'Depend upon it , if your son is innocent he will be none the worse . ' '' 'Perhaps , Alice , you had better leave us together , ' she said , and her daughter withdrew . 'Now , sir , ' she continued , 'I had no intention of telling you all this , but since my poor daughter has disclosed it I have no alternative . Having once decided to speak , I will tell you all without omitting any particular . ' '' 'It is your wisest course , ' said I. '' 'Mr . Drebber has been with us nearly three weeks . He and his secretary , Mr. Stangerson , had been travelling on the Continent . I noticed a `` Copenhagen '' label upon each of their trunks , showing that that had been their last stopping place . Stangerson was a quiet reserved man , but his employer , I am sorry to say , was far otherwise . He was coarse in his habits and brutish in his ways . The very night of his arrival he became very much the worse for drink , and , indeed , after twelve o'clock in the day he could hardly ever be said to be sober . His manners towards the maid-servants were disgustingly free and familiar . Worst of all , he speedily assumed the same attitude towards my daughter , Alice , and spoke to her more than once in a way which , fortunately , she is too innocent to understand . On one occasion he actually seized her in his arms and embraced her -- -an outrage which caused his own secretary to reproach him for his unmanly conduct . ' '' 'But why did you stand all this , ' I asked . 'I suppose that you can get rid of your boarders when you wish. ' '' Mrs . Charpentier blushed at my pertinent question . 'Would to God that I had given him notice on the very day that he came , ' she said . 'But it was a sore temptation . They were paying a pound a day each -- -fourteen pounds a week , and this is the slack season . I am a widow , and my boy in the Navy has cost me much . I grudged to lose the money . I acted for the best . This last was too much , however , and I gave him notice to leave on account of it . That was the reason of his going. ' '' 'Well ? ' '' 'My heart grew light when I saw him drive away . My son is on leave just now , but I did not tell him anything of all this , for his temper is violent , and he is passionately fond of his sister . When I closed the door behind them a load seemed to be lifted from my mind . Alas , in less than an hour there was a ring at the bell , and I learned that Mr. Drebber had returned . He was much excited , and evidently the worse for drink . He forced his way into the room , where I was sitting with my daughter , and made some incoherent remark about having missed his train . He then turned to Alice , and before my very face , proposed to her that she should fly with him . `` You are of age , '' he said , `` and there is no law to stop you . I have money enough and to spare . Never mind the old girl here , but come along with me now straight away . You shall live like a princess . '' Poor Alice was so frightened that she shrunk away from him , but he caught her by the wrist and endeavoured to draw her towards the door . I screamed , and at that moment my son Arthur came into the room . What happened then I do not know . I heard oaths and the confused sounds of a scuffle . I was too terrified to raise my head . When I did look up I saw Arthur standing in the doorway laughing , with a stick in his hand . `` I do n't think that fine fellow will trouble us again , '' he said . `` I will just go after him and see what he does with himself . '' With those words he took his hat and started off down the street . The next morning we heard of Mr. Drebber 's mysterious death . ' '' This statement came from Mrs. Charpentier 's lips with many gasps and pauses . At times she spoke so low that I could hardly catch the words . I made shorthand notes of all that she said , however , so that there should be no possibility of a mistake . `` `` It 's quite exciting , '' said Sherlock Holmes , with a yawn . `` What happened next ? `` `` When Mrs. Charpentier paused , '' the detective continued , `` I saw that the whole case hung upon one point . Fixing her with my eye in a way which I always found effective with women , I asked her at what hour her son returned . `` 'I do not know , ' she answered . `` 'Not know ? ' '' 'No ; he has a latch-key , and he let himself in . ' '' 'After you went to bed ? ' '' 'Yes . ' '' 'When did you go to bed ? ' '' 'About eleven . ' '' 'So your son was gone at least two hours ? ' '' 'Yes . ' '' 'Possibly four or five ? ' '' 'Yes . ' '' 'What was he doing during that time ? ' '' 'I do not know , ' she answered , turning white to her very lips . `` Of course after that there was nothing more to be done . I found out where Lieutenant Charpentier was , took two officers with me , and arrested him . When I touched him on the shoulder and warned him to come quietly with us , he answered us as bold as brass , 'I suppose you are arresting me for being concerned in the death of that scoundrel Drebber , ' he said . We had said nothing to him about it , so that his alluding to it had a most suspicious aspect . `` `` Very , '' said Holmes . `` He still carried the heavy stick which the mother described him as having with him when he followed Drebber . It was a stout oak cudgel . `` `` What is your theory , then ? `` `` Well , my theory is that he followed Drebber as far as the Brixton Road . When there , a fresh altercation arose between them , in the course of which Drebber received a blow from the stick , in the pit of the stomach , perhaps , which killed him without leaving any mark . The night was so wet that no one was about , so Charpentier dragged the body of his victim into the empty house . As to the candle , and the blood , and the writing on the wall , and the ring , they may all be so many tricks to throw the police on to the wrong scent . `` `` Well done ! '' said Holmes in an encouraging voice . `` Really , Gregson , you are getting along . We shall make something of you yet . `` `` I flatter myself that I have managed it rather neatly , '' the detective answered proudly . `` The young man volunteered a statement , in which he said that after following Drebber some time , the latter perceived him , and took a cab in order to get away from him . On his way home he met an old shipmate , and took a long walk with him . On being asked where this old shipmate lived , he was unable to give any satisfactory reply . I think the whole case fits together uncommonly well . What amuses me is to think of Lestrade , who had started off upon the wrong scent . I am afraid he wo n't make much of 15 Why , by Jove , here 's the very man himself ! `` It was indeed Lestrade , who had ascended the stairs while we were