fled . The Flemish Bastard had preferred his vengeance to his safety ! Rushing at Onega , he buried his tomahawk in her brain , and then , yelling his war-cry , he waved the blood-stained weapon above his head , and flew into the hut where the prisoners still knelt . De Catinat saw him coming , and a mad joy glistened in his eyes . He rose to meet him , and as he rushed in he fired both barrels of his pistol into the Bastard 's face . An instant later a swarm of Canadians had rushed over the writhing bodies , the captives felt warm friendly hands which grasped their own , and looking upon the smiling , well-known faces of Amos Green , Savage , and Du Lhut , they knew that peace had come to them at last.And so the refugees came to the end of the toils of their journey , for that winter was spent by them in peace at Fort St. Louis , and in the spring , the Iroquois having carried the war to the Upper St. Lawrence , the travellers were able to descend into the English provinces , and so to make their way down the Hudson to New York , where a warm welcome awaited them from the family of Amos Green . The friendship between the two men was now so cemented together by common memories and common danger that they soon became partners in fur-trading , and the name of the Frenchman came at last to be as familiar in the mountains of Maine and on the slopes of the Alleghanies as it had once been in thesalonsand corridors of Versailles . In time De Catinat built a house on Staten Island , where many of his fellow-refugees had settled , and much of what he won from his fur-trading was spent in the endeavour to help his struggling Huguenot brothers . Amos Green had married a Dutch maiden of Schenectady , and as Adele and she became inseparable friends , the marriage served to draw closer the ties of love which held the two families together.As to Captain Ephraim Savage , he returned safely to his beloved Boston , where he fulfilled his ambition by building himself a fair brick house upon the rising ground in the northern part of the city , whence he could look down both upon the shipping in the river and the bay . There he lived , much respected by his townsfolk , who made him selectman and alderman , and gave him the command of a goodly ship when Sir William Phips made his attack upon Quebec , and found that the old Lion Frontenac was not to be driven from his lair . So , honoured by all , the old seaman lived to an age which carried him deep into the next century , when he could already see with his dim eyes something of the growing greatness of his country.The manor-house of Sainte Marie was soon restored to its former prosperity , but its seigneur was from the day that he lost his wife and son a changed man . He grew leaner , fiercer , less human , forever heading parties which made their way into the Iroquois woods and which outrivalled the savages themselves in the terrible nature of their deeds . A day came at last when he sallied out upon one of these expeditions , from which neither he nor any of his men ever returned . Many a terrible secret is hid by those silent woods , and the fate of Charles de la Noue , Seigneur de Sainte Marie , is among them.Towards the latter quarter of the seventeenth century there was hardly an important industry in France which was not controlled by the Huguenots , so that , numerous as they were , their importance was out of all proportion to their numbers . The cloth trade of the north and the south-east , the manufacture of serges and light stuffs in Languedoc , the linen trade of Normandy and Brittany , the silk and velvet industry of Tours and Lyons , the glass of Normandy , the paper of Auvergne and Angoumois , the jewellery of the Isle of France , the tan yards of Touraine , the iron and tin work of the Sedanais -- -all these were largely owned and managed by Huguenots . The numerous Saint days of the Catholic Calendar handicapped their rivals , and it was computed that the Protestant worked 310 days in the year to his fellow-countryman 's 260.A very large number of the Huguenot refugees were brought back , and the jails and galleys of France were crowded with them . One hundred thousand settled in Friesland and Holland , 25,000 in Switzerland , 75,000 in Germany , and 50,000 in England . Some made their way even to the distant Cape of Good Hope , where they remained in the Paarl district.In war , as in industry , the exiles were a source of strength to the countries which received them . Frenchmen drilled the Russian armies of Peter the Great , a Huguenot Count became commander-in-chief in Denmark , and Schomberg led the army of Brandenburg , and afterwards that of England.In England three Huguenot regiments were formed for the service of William . The exiles established themselves as silk workers in Spitalfields , cotton spinners at Bideford , tapestry weavers at Exeter , wool carders at Taunton , kersey makers at Norwich , weavers at Canterbury , bat makers at Wandsworth , sailcloth makers at Ipswich , workers in calico in Bromley , glass in Sussex , paper at Laverstock , cambric at Edinburgh.Early Protestant refugees had taken refuge in America twenty years before the revocation , where they formed a colony at Staten Island . A body came to Boston in 1684 , and were given 11,000 acres at Oxford , by order of the General Court at Massachusetts . In New York and Long Island colonies sprang up , and later in Virginia ( the Monacan Settlement ) , in Maryland , and in South Carolina ( French Santee and Orange Quarter ) .It has been left to our own century to clear the fair fame of Madame de Maintenon of all reproach , and to show her as what she was , a pure woman and a devoted wife . She has received little justice from the memoir writers of the seventeenth century , most of whom , the Duc de St. Simon , for example , and the Princess Elizabeth of Bavaria , had their own private reasons for disliking her . An admirable epitome of her character and influence will be found in Dr. Dollinger'sHistorical Studies . She made Louis an excellent wife , waited upon him assiduously for thirty years of married life , influenced him constantly towards good -- -save only in the one instance of the Huguenots , and finally died very shortly after her husband.Madame de Montespan lived in great magnificence after the triumph of her rival , and spent freely the vast sums which the king 's generosity had furnished her with . Eventually , having exhausted all that this world could offer , she took to hair-shirts and nail-studded girdles , in the hope of securing a good position in the next . Her horror of death was excessive . In thunderstorms she sat with a little child in her lap , in the hope that its innocence might shield her from the lightning . She slept always with her room ablaze with tapers , and with several women watching by the side of her couch . When at last the inevitable arrived she left her body for the family tomb , her heart to the convent of La Fleche , and her entrails to the priory of Menoux near Bourbon . These latter were thrust into a box and given to a peasant to convey to the priory . Curiosity induced him to look into the box upon the way , and , seeing the contents , he supposed himself to be the victim of a practical joke , and emptied them out into a ditch . A swineherd was passing at the moment with his pigs , and so it happened that , in the words of Mrs. Julia Pardoe , `` in a few minutes the most filthy animals in creation had devoured portions of the remains of one of the haughtiest women who ever trod the earth . `` Louis , after a reign of more than fifty years , which comprised the most brilliant epoch of French history , died at last in 1715 amidst the saddest surroundings.One by one those whom he loved had preceded him to the grave , his brother , his son , the two sons of his son , their wives , and finally his favourite great-grandson , until he , the old dying monarch , with his rouge and his stays , was left with only a little infant in arms , the Duc D'Anjou , three generations away from him , to perpetuate his line . On 20th August , 1715 , he was attacked by senile gangrene , which gradually spread up the leg until on the 30th it became fatal . His dying words were worthy of his better self . `` Gentlemen , I desire your pardon for the bad example which I have set you . I have greatly to thank you fur the manner in which you have served me , as well as for the attachment and fidelity which I have always experienced at your hands . I request from you the same zeal and fidelity for my grandson . Farewell , gentlemen . I feel that this parting has affected not only myself but you also . Forgive me ! I trust that you will sometimes think of me when I am gone . '' 