`` You say , Robert , that you have some slight knowledge of chemistry , and you will find it easier to follow what I say . Chemistry is to a large extent an empirical science , and the chance experiment may lead to greater results than could , with our present data , be derived from the closest study or the keenest reasoning . The most important chemical discoveries from the first manufacture of glass to the whitening and refining of sugar have all been due to some happy chance which might have befallen a mere dabbler as easily as a deep student . `` Well , it was to such a chance that my own great discovery -- -perhaps the greatest that the world has seen -- -was due , though I may claim the credit of having originated the line of thought which led up to it . I had frequently speculated as to the effect which powerful currents of electricity exercise upon any substance through which they are poured for a considerable time . I did not here mean such feeble currents as are passed along a telegraph wire , but I mean the very highest possible developments . Well , I tried a series of experiments upon this point . I found that in liquids , and in compounds , the force had a disintegrating effect . The well-known experiment of the electrolysis of water will , of course , occur to you . But I found that in the case of elemental solids the effect was a remarkable one . The element slowly decreased in weight , without perceptibly altering in composition . I hope that I make myself clear to you ? `` `` I follow you entirely , '' said Robert , deeply interested in his companion 's narrative . `` I tried upon several elements , and always with the same result . In every case an hour 's current would produce a perceptible loss of weight . My theory at that stage was that there was a loosening of the molecules caused by the electric fluid , and that a certain number of these molecules were shed off like an impalpable dust , all round the lump of earth or of metal , which remained , of course , the lighter by their loss . I had entirely accepted this theory , when a very remarkable chance led me to completely alter my opinions . `` I had one Saturday night fastened a bar of bismuth in a clamp , and had attached it on either side to an electric wire , in order to observe what effect the current would have upon it . I had been testing each metal in turn , exposing them to the influence for from one to two hours . I had just got everything in position , and had completed my connection , when I received a telegram to say that John Stillingfleet , an old chemist in London with whom I had been on terms of intimacy , was dangerously ill , and had expressed a wish to see me . The last train was due to leave in twenty minutes , and I lived a good mile from the station , I thrust a few things into a bag , locked my laboratory , and ran as hard as I could to catch it . `` It was not until I was in London that it suddenly occurred to me that I had neglected to shut off the current , and that it would continue to pass through the bar of bismuth until the batteries were exhausted . The fact , however , seemed to be of small importance , and I dismissed it from my mind . I was detained in London until the Tuesday night , and it was Wednesday morning before I got back to my work . As I unlocked the laboratory door my mind reverted to the uncompleted experiment , and it struck me that in all probability my piece of bismuth would have been entirely disintegrated and reduced to its primitive molecules . I was utterly unprepared for the truth . `` When I approached the table I found , sure enough , that the bar of metal had vanished , and that the clamp was empty . Having noted the fact , I was about to turn away to something else , when my attention was attracted to the fact that the table upon which the clamp stood was starred over with little patches of some liquid silvery matter , which lay in single drops or coalesced into little pools . I had a very distinct recollection of having thoroughly cleared the table before beginning my experiment , so that this substance had been deposited there since I had left for London . Much interested , I very carefully collected it all into one vessel , and examined it minutely . There could be no question as to what it was . It was the purest mercury , and gave no response to any test for bismuth . `` I at once grasped the fact that chance had placed in my hands a chemical discovery of the very first importance . If bismuth were , under certain conditions , to be subjected to the action of electricity , it would begin by losing weight , and would finally be transformed into mercury . I had broken down the partition which separated two elements . `` But the process would be a constant one . It would presumably prove to be a general law , and not an isolated fact . If bismuth turned into mercury , what would mercury turn into ? There would be no rest for me until I had solved the question . I renewed the exhausted batteries and passed the current through the bowl of quicksilver . For sixteen hours I sat watching the metal , marking how it slowly seemed to curdle , to grow firmer , to lose its silvery glitter and to take a dull yellow hue . When I at last picked it up in a forceps , and threw it upon the table , it had lost every characteristic of mercury , and had obviously become another metal . A few simple tests were enough to show me that this other metal was platinum . `` Now , to a chemist , there was something very suggestive in the order in which these changes had been effected . Perhaps you can see the relation , Robert , which they bear to each other ? `` `` No , I can not say that I do . `` Robert had sat listening to this strange statement with parted lips and staring eyes . `` I will show you . Speaking atomically , bismuth is the heaviest of the metals . Its atomic weight is 210 . The next in weight is lead , 207 , and then comes mercury at 200 . Possibly the long period during which the current had acted in my absence had reduced the bismuth to lead and the lead in turn to mercury . Now platinum stands at 197.5 , and it was accordingly the next metal to be produced by the continued current . Do you see now ? `` `` It is quite clear . `` `` And then there came the inference , which sent my heart into my mouth and caused my head to swim round . Gold is the next in the series . Its atomic weight is 197 . I remembered now , and for the first time understood why it was always lead and mercury winch were mentioned by the old alchemists as being the two metals which might be used in their calling . With fingers which trembled with excitement I adjusted the wires again , and in little more than an hour -- -for the length of the process was always in proportion to the difference in the metals -- -I had before me a knob of ruddy crinkled metal , which answered to every reaction for gold . `` Well , Robert , this is a long story , but I think that you will agree with me that its importance justifies me in going into detail . When I had satisfied myself that I had really manufactured gold I cut the nugget in two . One half I sent to a jeweller and worker in precious metals , with whom I had some slight acquaintance , asking him to report upon the quality of the metal . With the other half I continued my series of experiments , and reduced it in successive stages through all the long series of metals , through silver and zinc and manganese , until I brought it to lithium , which is the lightest of all . `` `` And what did it turn to then ? '' asked Robert . `` Then came what to chemists is likely to be the most interesting portion of my discovery . It turned to a greyish fine powder , which powder gave no further results , however much I might treat it with electricity . And that powder is the base of all things ; it is the mother of all the elements ; it is , in short , the substance whose existence has been recently surmised by a leading chemist , and which has been christened protyle by him . I am the discoverer of the great law of the electrical transposition of the metals , and I am the first to demonstrate protyle , so that , I think , Robert , if all my schemes in other directions come to nothing , my name is at least likely to live in the chemical world . `` There is not very much more for me to tell you . I had my nugget back from my friend the jeweller , confirming my opinion as to its nature and its quality . I soon found several methods by which the process might be simplified , and especially a modification of the ordinary electric current , which was very much more effective . Having made a certain amount of gold , I disposed of it for a sum which enabled me to buy improved materials and stronger batteries . In this way I enlarged my operations until at last I was in a position to build this house and to have a laboratory where I could carry out my work on a much larger scale . As I said before , I can now state with all truth that the amount of my income is only limited by my desires . `` `` It is wonderful ! '' gasped Robert . `` It is like a fairy tale . But with this great discovery in your mind you must have been sorely tempted to confide it to others . `` `` I thought well over it . I gave it every consideration . It was obvious to me that if my invention were made public , its immediate result would be to deprive the present precious metals of all their special value . Some other substance -- -amber , we will say , or ivory -- -would be chosen as a medium for barter , and gold would be inferior to brass , as being heavier and yet not so hard . No one would be the better for such a consummation as that . Now , if I retained my secret , and used it with wisdom , I might make myself the greatest benefactor to mankind that has ever lived . Those were the chief reasons , and I trust that they are not dishonourable ones , which led me to form the