left , and plucked each other 's sleeves to call attention to the many strange things on every side of them . `` See to the brave stalls ! '' cried Alleyne . `` See to the noble armor set forth , and the costly taffeta -- -and oh , Ford , see to where the scrivener sits with the pigments and the ink-horns , and the rolls of sheepskin as white as the Beaulieu napery ! Saw man ever the like before ? `` `` Nay , man , there are finer stalls in Cheapside , '' answered Ford , whose father had taken him to London on occasion of one of the Smithfield joustings . `` I have seen a silversmith 's booth there which would serve to buy either side of this street . But mark these houses , Alleyne , how they thrust forth upon the top . And see to the coats-of-arms at every window , and banner or pensil on the roof . `` `` And the churches ! '' cried Alleyne . `` The Priory at Christchurch was a noble pile , but it was cold and bare , methinks , by one of these , with their frettings , and their carvings , and their traceries , as though some great ivy-plant of stone had curled and wantoned over the walls . `` `` And hark to the speech of the folk ! '' said Ford . `` Was ever such a hissing and clacking ? I wonder that they have not wit to learn English now that they have come under the English crown . By Richard of Hampole ! there are fair faces amongst them . See the wench with the brown whimple ! Out on you , Alleyne , that you would rather gaze upon dead stone than on living flesh ! `` It was little wonder that the richness and ornament , not only of church and of stall , but of every private house as well , should have impressed itself upon the young squires . The town was now at the height of its fortunes . Besides its trade and its armorers , other causes had combined to pour wealth into it . War , which had wrought evil upon so many fair cities around , had brought nought but good to this one . As her French sisters decayed she increased , for here , from north , and from east , and from south , came the plunder to be sold and the ransom money to be spent . Through all her sixteen landward gates there had set for many years a double tide of empty-handed soldiers hurrying Francewards , and of enriched and laden bands who brought their spoils home . The prince 's court , too , with its swarm of noble barons and wealthy knights , many of whom , in imitation of their master , had brought their ladies and their children from England , all helped to swell the coffers of the burghers . Now , with this fresh influx of noblemen and cavaliers , food and lodging were scarce to be had , and the prince was hurrying forward his forces to Dax in Gascony to relieve the overcrowding of his capital.In front of the minster and abbey of St. Andrew 's was a large square crowded with priests , soldiers , women , friars , and burghers , who made it their common centre for sight-seeing and gossip . Amid the knot of noisy and gesticulating townsfolk , many small parties of mounted knights and squires threaded their way towards the prince 's quarters , where the huge iron-clamped doors were thrown back to show that he held audience within . Two-score archers stood about the gateway , and beat back from time to time with their bow-staves the inquisitive and chattering crowd who swarmed round the portal . Two knights in full armor , with lances raised and closed visors , sat their horses on either side , while in the centre , with two pages to tend upon him , there stood a noble-faced man in flowing purple gown , who pricked off upon a sheet of parchment the style and title of each applicant , marshalling them in their due order , and giving to each the place and facility which his rank demanded . His long white beard and searching eyes imparted to him an air of masterful dignity , which was increased by his tabardlike vesture and the heraldic barret cap with triple plume which bespoke his office . `` It is Sir William de Pakington , the prince 's own herald and scrivener , '' whispered Sir Nigel , as they pulled up amid the line of knights who waited admission . `` Ill fares it with the man who would venture to deceive him . He hath by rote the name of every knight of France or of England ; and all the tree of his family , with his kinships , coat-armor , marriages , augmentations , abatements , and I know not what beside . We may leave our horses here with the varlets , and push forward with our squires . `` Following Sir Nigel 's counsel , they pressed on upon foot until they were close to the prince 's secretary , who was in high debate with a young and foppish knight , who was bent upon making his way past him. '' Mackworth ! '' said the king-at-arms . `` It is in my mind , young sir , that you have not been presented before . `` `` Nay , it is but a day since I set foot in Bordeaux , but I feared lest the prince should think it strange that I had not waited upon him . `` `` The prince hath other things to think upon , '' quoth Sir William de Pakington ; `` but if you be a Mackworth you must be a Mackworth of Normanton , and indeed I see now that your coat is sable and ermine . `` `` I am a Mackworth of Normanton , '' the other answered , with some uneasiness of manner . `` Then you must be Sir Stephen Mackworth , for I learn that when old Sir Guy died he came in for the arms and the name , the war-cry and the profit . `` `` Sir Stephen is my elder brother , and I am Arthur , the second son , '' said the youth . `` In sooth and in sooth ! '' cried the king-at-arms with scornful eyes . `` And pray , sir second son , where is the cadency mark which should mark your rank . Dare you to wear your brother 's coat without the crescent which should stamp you as his cadet . Away to your lodgings , and come not nigh the prince until the armorer hath placed the true charge upon your shield . '' As the youth withdrew in confusion , Sir William 's keen eye singled out the five red roses from amid the overlapping shields and cloud of pennons which faced him. '' Ha ! '' he cried , `` there are charges here which are above counterfeit . The roses of Loring and the boar 's head of Buttesthorn may stand back in peace , but by my faith ! they are not to be held back in war . Welcome , Sir Oliver , Sir Nigel ! Chandos will be glad to his very heart-roots when he sees you . This way , my fair sirs . Your squires are doubtless worthy the fame of their masters . Down this passage , Sir Oliver ! Edricson ! Ha ! one of the old strain of Hampshire Edricsons , I doubt not . And Ford , they are of a south Saxon stock , and of good repute . There are Norburys in Cheshire and in Wiltshire , and also , as I have heard , upon the borders . So , my fair sirs , and I shall see that you are shortly admitted . `` He had finished his professional commentary by flinging open a folding door , and ushering the party into a broad hall , which was filled with a great number of people who were waiting , like themselves , for an audience . The room was very spacious , lighted on one side by three arched and mullioned windows , while opposite was a huge fireplace in which a pile of faggots was blazing merrily . Many of the company had crowded round the flames , for the weather was bitterly cold ; but the two knights seated themselves upon a bancal , with their squires standing behind them . Looking down the room , Alleyne marked that both floor and ceiling were of the richest oak , the latter spanned by twelve arching beams , which were adorned at either end by the lilies and the lions of the royal arms . On the further side was a small door , on each side of which stood men-at-arms . From time to time an elderly man in black with rounded shoulders and a long white wand in his hand came softly forth from this inner room , and beckoned to one or other of the company , who doffed cap and followed him.The two knights were deep in talk , when Alleyne became aware of a remarkable individual who was walking round the room in their direction . As he passed each knot of cavaliers every head turned to look after him , and it was evident , from the bows and respectful salutations on all sides , that the interest which he excited was not due merely to his strange personal appearance . He was tall and straight as a lance , though of a great age , for his hair , which curled from under his velvet cap of maintenance , was as white as the new-fallen snow . Yet , from the swing of his stride and the spring of his step , it was clear that he had not yet lost the fire and activity of his youth . His fierce hawk-like face was clean shaven like that of a priest , save for a long thin wisp of white moustache which drooped down half way to his shoulder . That he had been handsome might be easily judged from his high aquiline nose and clear-cut chin ; but his features had been so distorted by the seams and scars of old wounds , and by the loss of one eye which had been torn from the socket , that there was little left to remind one of the dashing young knight who had been fifty years ago the fairest as well as the boldest of the English chivalry . Yet what knight was there in that hall of St. Andrew 's who would not have gladly laid down youth , beauty , and all that he possessed to win the fame of this man ? For who could be named with Chandos , the stainless knight , the wise councillor , the valiant warrior , the hero of Crecy , of Winchelsea , of Poictiers , of Auray , and of as many other battles as there were years to his life ? `` Ha , my little heart of gold ! '' he cried , darting forward suddenly and throwing his arms round Sir Nigel . `` I heard that you were here and have been seeking you . `` `` My fair and dear lord , '' said the knight , returning the warrior 's embrace , `` I have indeed come back to you , for where else shall