De Catinat looked down at the gentle face which had set now into the hard lines of an immutable resolve . He knew that it would be as she had said , and that , come what might , that last outrage would not befall them . Could he ever have believed that the time would come when it would send a thrill of joy through his heart to know that his wife would die ? As they entered the Iroquois village the squaws and warriors had rushed towards them , and they passed through a double line of hideous faces which jeered and jibed and howled at them as they passed . Their escort led them through this rabble and conducted them to a hut which stood apart . It was empty , save for some willow fishing-nets hanging at the side , and a heap of pumpkins stored in the corner . `` The chiefs will come and will decide upon what is to be done with us , '' said Onega . `` Here they are coming now , and you will soon see that I am right , for I know the ways of my own people . `` An instant later an old war-chief , accompanied by two younger braves and by the bearded half-Dutch Iroquois who had led the attack upon the manor-house , strolled over and stood in the doorway , looking in at the prisoners , and shooting little guttural sentences at each other . The totems of the Hawk , the Wolf , the Bear , and the Snake showed that they each represented one of the great families of the Nation . The Bastard was smoking a stone pipe , and yet it was he who talked the most , arguing apparently with one of the younger savages , who seemed to come round at last to his opinion . Finally the old chief said a few short stern words , and the matter appeared to be settled . `` And you , you beldame , '' said the Bastard in French to the Iroquois woman , `` you will have a lesson this night which will teach you to side against your own people . `` `` You half-bred mongrel , '' replied the fearless old woman , `` you should take that hat from your head when you speak to one in whose veins runs the best blood of the Onondagas . You a warrior ? You who , with a thousand at your back , could not make your way into a little house with a few poor husbandmen within it ! It is no wonder that your father 's people have cast you out ! Go back and work at the beads , or play at the game of plum-stones , for some day in the woods you might meet with a man , and so bring disgrace upon the nation which has taken you in ! `` The evil face of the Bastard grew livid as he listened to the scornful words which were hissed at him by the captive . He strode across to her , and taking her hand he thrust her forefinger into the burning bowl of his pipe . She made no effort to remove it , but sat with a perfectly set face for a minute or more , looking out through the open door at the evening sunlight and the little groups of chattering Indians . He had watched her keenly in the hope of hearing a cry , or seeing some spasm of agony upon her face , but at last , with a curse , he dashed down her hand and strode from the hut . She thrust her charred finger into her bosom and laughed . `` He is a good-for-nought ! '' she cried . `` He does not even know how to torture . Now , I could have got a cry out of him . I am sure of it . But you -- -monsieur , you are very white ! `` `` It was the sight of such a hellish deed . Ah , if we were but set face to face , I with my sword , he with what weapon he chose , by God , he should pay for it with his heart 's blood . `` The Indian woman seemed surprised . `` It is strange to me , '' she said , `` that you should think of what befalls me when you are yourselves under the same shadow . But our fate will be as I said. '' '' Ah ! `` `` You and I are to die at the stake . She is to be given to the dog who has left us. '' '' Ah ! '' '' Adele ! Adele ! What shall I do ! '' He tore his hair in his helplessness and distraction . `` No , no , fear not , Amory , for my heart will not fail me . What is the pang of death if it binds us together ? `` `` The younger chief pleaded for you , saying that theMitche Manitouhad stricken you with madness , as could be seen by your swimming to their canoe , and that a blight would fall upon the nation if you were led to the stake . But this Bastard said that love came often like madness among the pale-faces , and that it was that alone which had driven you . Then it was agreed that you should die and that she should go to his wigwam , since he had led the war-party . As for me , their hearts were bitter against me , and I also am to die by the pine splinters . `` De Catinat breathed a prayer that he might meet his fate like a soldier and a gentleman . `` When is it to be ? '' he asked. '' Now ! At once ! They have gone to make all ready ! But you have time yet , for I am to go first . `` `` Amory , Amory , could we not die together now ? '' cried Adele , throwing her arms round her husband . `` If it be sin , it is surely a sin which will be forgiven us . Let us go , dear . Let us leave these dreadful people and this cruel world and turn where we shall find peace . `` The Indian woman 's eyes flashed with satisfaction . `` You have spoken well , White Lily , '' said she . `` Why should you wait until it is their pleasure to pluck you . See , already the glare of their fire beats upon the tree-trunks , and you can hear the howlings of those who thirst for your blood . If you die by your own hands , they will be robbed of their spectacle , and their chief will have lost his bride . So you will be the victors in the end , and they the vanquished . You have said rightly , White Lily . There lies the only path for you ! `` `` But how to take it ? `` Onega glanced keenly at the two warriors who stood as sentinels at the door of the hut . They had turned away , absorbed in the horrible preparations which were going on . Then she rummaged deeply within the folds of her loose gown and pulled out a small pistol with two brass barrels and double triggers in the form of winged dragons . It was only a toy to look at , all carved and scrolled and graven with the choicest work of the Paris gunsmith . For its beauty the seigneur had bought it at his last visit to Quebec , and yet it might be useful , too , and it was loaded in both barrels . `` I meant to use it on myself , '' said she , as she slipped it into the hand of De Catinat . `` But now I am minded to show them that I can die as an Onondaga should die , and that I am worthy to have the blood of their chiefs in my veins . Take it , for I swear that I will not use it myself , unless it be to fire both bullets into that Bastard 's heart . `` A flush of joy shot over De Catinat as his fingers closed round the pistol . Here was indeed a key to unlock the gates of peace . Adele laid her cheek against his shoulder and laughed with pleasure . `` You will forgive me , dear , '' he whispered . `` Forgive you ! I bless you , and love you with my whole heart and soul.Clasp me close , darling , and say one prayer before you do it . `` They had sunk on their knees together when three warriors entered the hut and said a few abrupt words to their country-woman . She rose with a smile . `` They are waiting for me , '' said she . `` You shall see , White Lily , and you also , monsieur , how well I know what is due to my position . Farewell , and remember Onega ! `` She smiled again , and walked from the hut amidst the warriors with the quick firm step of a queen who sweeps to a throne . `` Now , Amory ! '' whispered Adele , closing her eyes , and nestling still closer to him.He raised the pistol , and then , with a quick sudden intaking of the breath , he dropped it , and knelt with glaring eyes looking up at a tree which faced the open door of the hut.It was a beech-tree , exceedingly old and gnarled , with its bark hanging down in strips and its whole trunk spotted with moss and mould . Some ten feet above the ground the main trunk divided into two , and in the fork thus formed a hand had suddenly appeared , a large reddish hand , which shook frantically from side to side in passionate dissuasion . The next instant , as the two captives still stared in amazement , the hand disappeared behind the trunk again and a face appeared in its place , which still shook from side to side as resolutely as its forerunner . It was impossible to mistake that mahogany , wrinkled skin , the huge bristling eyebrows , or the little glistening eyes . It was Captain Ephraim Savage of Boston ! And even as they stared and wondered a sudden shrill whistle burst out from the depths of the forest , and in a moment every bush and thicket and patch of brushwood were spouting fire and smoke , while the snarl of the musketry ran round the whole glade , and the storm of bullets whizzed and pelted among the yelling savages . The Iroquois ' sentinels had been drawn in by their bloodthirsty craving to see the prisoners die , and now the Canadians were upon them , and they were hemmed in by a ring of fire . First one way and then another they rushed , to be met always by the same blast of death , until finding at last some gap in the attack they streamed through , like sheep through a broken fence , and rushed madly away through the forest , with the bullets of their pursuers still singing about their ears , until the whistle sounded again to recall the woodsmen from the chase.But there was one savage who had found work to do before he