warrant him that we have fighting enow ere we turn our faces northward again . It is said that there are four-score thousand men behind the King of Spain , with Du Guesclin and all the best lances of France , who have sworn to shed their heart 's blood ere this Pedro come again to the throne . `` `` Yet our own army is a great one , '' said Alleyne . `` Nay , there are but seven-and-twenty thousand men . Chandos hath persuaded the prince to leave many behind , and indeed I think that he is right , for there is little food and less water in these parts for which we are bound . A man without his meat or a horse without his fodder is like a wet bow-string , fit for little . But voila , mon petit , here comes Chandos and his company , and there is many a pensil and banderole among yonder squadrons which show that the best blood of England is riding under his banners . `` Whilst Aylward had been speaking , a strong column of archers had defiled through the pass beneath them . They were followed by a banner-bearer who held high the scarlet wedge upon a silver field which proclaimed the presence of the famous warrior . He rode himself within a spear's-length of his standard , clad from neck to foot in steel , but draped in the long linen gown or parement which was destined to be the cause of his death . His plumed helmet was carried behind him by his body-squire , and his head was covered by a small purple cap , from under which his snow-white hair curled downwards to his shoulders . With his long beak-like nose and his single gleaming eye , which shone brightly from under a thick tuft of grizzled brow , he seemed to Alleyne to have something of the look of some fierce old bird of prey . For a moment he smiled , as his eye lit upon the banner of the five roses waving from the hamlet ; but his course lay for Pampeluna , and he rode on after the archers.Close at his heels came sixteen squires , all chosen from the highest families , and behind them rode twelve hundred English knights , with gleam of steel and tossing of plumes , their harness jingling , their long straight swords clanking against their stirrup-irons , and the beat of their chargers ' hoofs like the low deep roar of the sea upon the shore . Behind them marched six hundred Cheshire and Lancashire archers , bearing the badge of the Audleys , followed by the famous Lord Audley himself , with the four valiant squires , Dutton of Dutton , Delves of Doddington , Fowlehurst of Crewe , and Hawkestone of Wainehill , who had all won such glory at Poictiers . Two hundred heavily-armed cavalry rode behind the Audley standard , while close at their heels came the Duke of Lancaster with a glittering train , heralds tabarded with the royal arms riding three deep upon cream-colored chargers in front of him . On either side of the young prince rode the two seneschals of Aquitaine , Sir Guiscard d'Angle and Sir Stephen Cossington , the one bearing the banner of the province and the other that of Saint George . Away behind him as far as eye could reach rolled the far-stretching , unbroken river of steel -- -rank after rank and column after column , with waving of plumes , glitter of arms , tossing of guidons , and flash and flutter of countless armorial devices . All day Alleyne looked down upon the changing scene , and all day the old bowman stood by his elbow , pointing out the crests of famous warriors and the arms of noble houses . Here were the gold mullets of the Pakingtons , the sable and ermine of the Mackworths , the scarlet bars of the Wakes , the gold and blue of the Grosvenors , the cinque-foils of the Cliftons , the annulets of the Musgraves , the silver pinions of the Beauchamps , the crosses of the Molineaux , the bloody chevron of the Woodhouses , the red and silver of the Worsleys , the swords of the Clarks , the boars'-heads of the Lucies , the crescents of the Boyntons , and the wolf and dagger of the Lipscombs . So through the sunny winter day the chivalry of England poured down through the dark pass of Roncesvalles to the plains of Spain.It was on a Monday that the Duke of Lancaster 's division passed safely through the Pyrenees . On the Tuesday there was a bitter frost , and the ground rung like iron beneath the feet of the horses ; yet ere evening the prince himself , with the main battle of his army , had passed the gorge and united with his vanguard at Pampeluna . With him rode the King of Majorca , the hostage King of Navarre , and the fierce Don Pedro of Spain , whose pale blue eyes gleamed with a sinister light as they rested once more upon the distant peaks of the land which had disowned him . Under the royal banners rode many a bold Gascon baron and many a hot-blooded islander . Here were the high stewards of Aquitaine , of Saintonge , of La Rochelle , of Quercy , of Limousin , of Agenois , of Poitou , and of Bigorre , with the banners and musters of their provinces . Here also were the valiant Earl of Angus , Sir Thomas Banaster with his garter over his greave , Sir Nele Loring , second cousin to Sir Nigel , and a long column of Welsh footmen who marched under the red banner of Merlin . From dawn to sundown the long train wound through the pass , their breath reeking up upon the frosty air like the steam from a cauldron.The weather was less keen upon the Wednesday , and the rear-guard made good their passage , with the bombards and the wagon-train . Free companions and Gascons made up this portion of the army to the number of ten thousand men . The fierce Sir Hugh Calverley , with his yellow mane , and the rugged Sir Robert Knolles , with their war-hardened and veteran companies of English bowmen , headed the long column ; while behind them came the turbulent bands of the Bastard of Breteuil , Nandon de Bagerant , one-eyed Camus , Black Ortingo , La Nuit and others whose very names seem to smack of hard hands and ruthless deeds . With them also were the pick of the Gascon chivalry -- -the old Duc d'Armagnac , his nephew Lord d'Albret , brooding and scowling over his wrongs , the giant Oliver de Clisson , the Captal de Buch , pink of knighthood , the sprightly Sir Perducas d'Albret , the red-bearded Lord d'Esparre , and a long train of needy and grasping border nobles , with long pedigrees and short purses , who had come down from their hill-side strongholds , all hungering for the spoils and the ransoms of Spain . By the Thursday morning the whole army was encamped in the Vale of Pampeluna , and the prince had called his council to meet him in the old palace of the ancient city of Navarre.Whilst the council was sitting in Pampeluna the White Company , having encamped in a neighboring valley , close to the companies of La Nuit and of Black Ortingo , were amusing themselves with sword-play , wrestling , and shooting at the shields , which they had placed upon the hillside to serve them as butts . The younger archers , with their coats of mail thrown aside , their brown or flaxen hair tossing in the wind , and their jerkins turned back to give free play to their brawny chests and arms , stood in lines , each loosing his shaft in turn , while Johnston , Aylward , Black Simon , and half-a-score of the elders lounged up and down with critical eyes , and a word of rough praise or of curt censure for the marksmen . Behind stood knots of Gascon and Brabant crossbowmen from the companies of Ortingo and of La Nuit , leaning upon their unsightly weapons and watching the practice of the Englishmen . `` A good shot , Hewett , a good shot ! '' said old Johnston to a young bowman , who stood with his bow in his left hand , gazing with parted lips after his flying shaft . `` You see , she finds the ring , as I knew she would from the moment that your string twanged . `` `` Loose it easy , steady , and yet sharp , '' said Aylward . `` By my hilt ! mon gar. , it is very well when you do but shoot at a shield , but when there is a man behind the shield , and he rides at you with wave of sword and glint of eyes from behind his vizor , you may find him a less easy mark . `` `` It is a mark that I have found before now , '' answered the young bowman . `` And shall again , camarade , I doubt not . But hola ! Johnston , who is this who holds his bow like a crow-keeper ? `` `` It is Silas Peterson , of Horsham . Do not wink with one eye and look with the other , Silas , and do not hop and dance after you shoot , with your tongue out , for that will not speed it upon its way . Stand straight and firm , as God made you . Move not the bow arm , and steady with the drawing hand ! `` `` I ' faith , '' said Black Simon , `` I am a spearman myself , and am more fitted for hand-strokes than for such work as this . Yet I have spent my days among bowmen , and I have seen many a brave shaft sped . I will not say but that we have some good marksmen here , and that this Company would be accounted a fine body of archers at any time or place . Yet I do not see any men who bend so strong a bow or shoot as true a shaft as those whom I have known . `` `` You say sooth , '' said Johnston , turning his seamed and grizzled face upon the man-at-arms . `` See yonder , '' he added , pointing to a bombard which lay within the camp : `` there is what hath done scath to good bowmanship , with its filthy soot and foolish roaring mouth . I wonder that a true knight , like our prince , should carry such a scurvy thing in his train . Robin , thou red-headed lurden , how oft must I tell thee not to shoot straight with a quarter-wind blowing across the mark ? `` `` By these ten finger-bones ! there were some fine bowmen at the intaking of Calais , '' said Aylward . `` I well remember that , on occasion of an outfall , a Genoan raised his arm over his mantlet , and shook it at us , a hundred paces from our line . There were twenty who loosed shafts at him , and when the man was afterwards slain it was found that he had taken eighteen through his forearm . `` `` And I can call to mind , '' remarked Johnston , `` that when the great cog