cloud . '' She cast another vindictive glance at the young guardsman , and rattled on once more upon her way . `` Come on ! '' cried De Catinat curtly , for his companion was staring open-mouthed after the carriage . `` Have you never seen a woman before ? `` `` Never such a one as that . `` `` Never one with so railing a tongue , I dare swear , '' said De Catinat . `` Never one with so lovely a face . And yet there is a lovely face at theRue St. Martin also . `` `` You seem to have a nice taste in beauty , for all your woodland training . `` `` Yes , for I have been cut away from women so much that when I stand before one I feel that she is something tender and sweet and holy . `` `` You may find dames at the court who are both tender and sweet , but you will look long , my friend , before you find the holy one . This one would ruin me if she can , and only because I have done what it was my duty to do . To keep oneself in this court is like coming down the La Chine Rapids where there is a rock to right , and a rock to left , and another perchance in front , and if you so much as graze one , where are you and your birch canoe ? But our rocks are women , and in our canoe we bear all our worldly fortunes . Now here is another who would sway me over to her side , and indeed I think it may prove to be the better side too . `` They had passed through the gateway of the palace , and the broad sweeping drive lay in front of them , dotted with carriages and horsemen . On the gravel walks were many gaily dressed ladies , who strolled among the flower-beds or watched the fountains with the sunlight glinting upon their high water sprays . One of these , who had kept her eyes turned upon the gate , came hastening forward the instant that De Catinat appeared . It was Mademoiselle Nanon , theconfidanteof Madame de Maintenon . `` I am so pleased to see you , captain , '' she cried , `` and I have waited so patiently . Madame would speak with you . The king comes to her at three , and we have but twenty minutes . I heard that you had gone to Paris , and so I stationed myself here . Madame has something which she would ask you . `` `` Then I will come at once . Ah , De Brissac , it is well met ! `` A tall , burly officer was passing in the same uniform which De Catinat wore . He turned at once , and came smiling towards his comrade . `` Ah , Amory , you have covered a league or two from the dust on your coat ! `` `` We are fresh from Paris . But I am called on business . This is my friend , Monsieur Amos Green . I leave him in your hands , for he is a stranger from America , and would fain see all that you can show . He stays with me at my quarters . And my horse , too , De Brissac . You can give it to the groom . `` Throwing the bridle to his brother officer , and pressing the hand of Amos Green , De Catinat sprang from his horse , and followed at the top of his speed in the direction which the young lady had already taken.The rooms which were inhabited by the lady who had already taken so marked a position at the court of France were as humble as were her fortunes at the time when they were allotted to her , but with that rare tact and self-restraint which were the leading features in her remarkable character , she had made no change in her living with the increase of her prosperity , and forbore from provoking envy and jealousy by any display of wealth or of power . In a side wing of the palace , far from the centralsalons , and only to be reached by long corridors and stairs , were the two or three small chambers upon which the eyes , first of the court , then of France , and finally of the world , were destined to be turned . In such rooms had the destitute widow of the poet Scarron been housed when she had first been brought to court by Madame de Montespan as the governess of the royal children , and in such rooms she still dwelt , now that she had added to her maiden Francoise d'Aubigny the title of Marquise de Maintenon , with the pension and estate which the king 's favour had awarded her . Here it was that every day the king would lounge , finding in the conversation of a clever and virtuous woman a charm and a pleasure which none of the professed wits of his sparkling court had ever been able to give to him , and here , too , the more sagacious of the courtiers were beginning to understand , was the point , formerly to be found in the magnificentsalonsof De Montespan , whence flowed those impulses and tendencies which were so eagerly studied , and so keenly followed up by all who wished to keep the favour of the king . It was a simple creed , that of the court . Were the king pious , then let all turn to their missals and their rosaries . Were he rakish , then who so rakish as his devoted followers ? But woe to the man who was rakish when he should be praying , or who pulled a long face when the king wore a laughing one ! And thus it was that keen eyes were ever fixed upon him , and upon every influence that came near him , so that the wary courtier , watching the first subtle signs of a coming change , might so order his conduct as to seem to lead rather than to follow.The young guardsman had scarce ever exchanged a word with this powerful lady , for it was her taste to isolate herself , and to appear with the court only at the hours of devotion . It was therefore with some feelings both of nervousness and of curiosity that he followed his guide down the gorgeous corridors , where art and wealth had been strewn with so lavish a hand . The lady paused in front of the chamber door , and turned to her companion . `` Madame wishes to speak to you of what occurred this morning , '' said she . `` I should advise you to say nothing to madame about your creed , for it is the only thing upon which her heart can be hard . '' She raised her finger to emphasise the warning , and tapping at the door , she pushed it open . `` I have brought Captain de Catinat , madame , '' said she . `` Then let the captain step in . '' The voice was firm , and yet sweetly musical.Obeying the command , De Catinat found himself in a room which was no larger and but little better furnished than that which was allotted to his own use . Yet , though simple , everything in the chamber was scrupulously neat and clean , betraying the dainty taste of a refined woman . The stamped-leather furniture , the La Savonniere carpet , the pictures of sacred subjects , exquisite from an artist 's point of view , the plain but tasteful curtains , all left an impression half religious and half feminine but wholly soothing . Indeed , the soft light , the high white statue of the Virgin in a canopied niche , with a perfumed red lamp burning before it , and the woodenprie-dieuwith the red-edged prayer-book upon the top of it , made the apartment look more like a private chapel than a fair lady 's boudoir.On each side of the empty fireplace was a little green-covered arm-chair , the one for madame and the other reserved for the use of the king . A small three-legged stool between them was heaped with her work-basket and her tapestry . On the chair which was furthest from the door , with her back turned to the light , madame was sitting as the young officer entered . It was her favourite position , and yet there were few women of her years who had so little reason to fear the sun , for a healthy life and active habits had left her with a clear skin and delicate bloom which any young beauty of the court might have envied . Her figure was graceful and queenly , her gestures and pose full of a natural dignity , and her voice , as he had already remarked , most sweet and melodious . Her face was handsome rather than beautiful , set in a statuesque classical mould , with broad white forehead , firm , delicately sensitive mouth , and a pair of large serene gray eyes , earnest and placid in repose , but capable of reflecting the whole play of her soul , from the merry gleam of humour to the quick flash of righteous anger . An elevating serenity was , however , the leading expression of her features , and in that she presented the strongest contrast to her rival , whose beautiful face was ever swept by the emotion of the moment , and who gleamed one hour and shadowed over the next like a corn-field in the wind . In wit and quickness of tongue it is true that De Montespan had the advantage , but the strong common-sense and the deeper nature of the elder woman might prove in the end to be the better weapon . De Catinat , at the moment , without having time to notice details , was simply conscious that he was in the presence of a very handsome woman , and that her large pensive eyes were fixed critically upon him , and seemed to be reading his thoughts as they had never been read before . `` I think that I have already seen you , sir , have I not ? `` `` Yes , madame , I have once or twice had the honour of attending upon you though it may not have been my good fortune to address you . `` `` My life is so quiet and retired that I fear that much of what is best and worthiest at the court is unknown to me . It is the curse of such places that evil flaunts itself before the eye and can not be overlooked , while the good retires in its modesty , so that at times we scarce dare hope that it is there . You have served , monsieur ? `` `` Yes , madame . In the Lowlands , on the Rhine , and in Canada . `` `` In Canada ! Ah ! What nobler ambition could woman have than to be a member of that sweet sisterhood which was founded by the holy Marie de l'Incarnation and the sainted Jeanne le Ber at Montreal ? It was but the other day that I had an account of them from Father Godet des Marais . What joy to be one of such a body , and to turn from