farm or drives his lean flock to their hill-side pastures . It is the country of the wolf and the isard , of the brown bear and the mountain-goat , a land of bare rock and of rushing water . Yet here it was that the will of a great prince had now assembled a gallant army ; so that from the Adour to the passes of Navarre the barren valleys and wind-swept wastes were populous with soldiers and loud with the shouting of orders and the neighing of horses . For the banners of war had been flung to the wind once more , and over those glistening peaks was the highway along which Honor pointed in an age when men had chosen her as their guide.And now all was ready for the enterprise . From Dax to St. Jean Pied-du-Port the country was mottled with the white tents of Gascons , Aquitanians and English , all eager for the advance . From all sides the free companions had trooped in , until not less than twelve thousand of these veteran troops were cantoned along the frontiers of Navarre . From England had arrived the prince 's brother , the Duke of Lancaster , with four hundred knights in his train and a strong company of archers . Above all , an heir to the throne had been born in Bordeaux , and the prince might leave his spouse with an easy mind , for all was well with mother and with child.The keys of the mountain passes still lay in the hands of the shifty and ignoble Charles of Navarre , who had chaffered and bargained both with the English and with the Spanish , taking money from the one side to hold them open and from the other to keep them sealed . The mallet hand of Edward , however , had shattered all the schemes and wiles of the plotter . Neither entreaty nor courtly remonstrance came from the English prince ; but Sir Hugh Calverley passed silently over the border with his company , and the blazing walls of the two cities of Miranda and Puenta de la Reyna warned the unfaithful monarch that there were other metals besides gold , and that he was dealing with a man to whom it was unsafe to lie . His price was paid , his objections silenced , and the mountain gorges lay open to the invaders . From the Feast of the Epiphany there was mustering and massing , until , in the first week of February -- -three days after the White Company joined the army -- -the word was given for a general advance through the defile of Roncesvalles . At five in the cold winter 's morning the bugles were blowing in the hamlet of St. Jean Pied-du-Port , and by six Sir Nigel 's Company , three hundred strong , were on their way for the defile , pushing swiftly in the dim light up the steep curving road ; for it was the prince 's order that they should be the first to pass through , and that they should remain on guard at the further end until the whole army had emerged from the mountains . Day was already breaking in the east , and the summits of the great peaks had turned rosy red , while the valleys still lay in the shadow , when they found themselves with the cliffs on either hand and the long , rugged pass stretching away before them.Sir Nigel rode his great black war-horse at the head of his archers , dressed in full armor , with Black Simon bearing his banner behind him , while Alleyne at his bridle-arm carried his blazoned shield and his well-steeled ashen spear . A proud and happy man was the knight , and many a time he turned in his saddle to look at the long column of bowmen who swung swiftly along behind him . `` By Saint Paul ! Alleyne , '' said he , `` this pass is a very perilous place , and I would that the King of Navarre had held it against us , for it would have been a very honorable venture had it fallen to us to win a passage . I have heard the minstrels sing of one Sir Roland who was slain by the infidels in these very parts . `` `` If it please you , my fair lord , '' said Black Simon , `` I know something of these parts , for I have twice served a term with the King of Navarre . There is a hospice of monks yonder , where you may see the roof among the trees , and there it was that Sir Roland was slain . The village upon the left is Orbaiceta , and I know a house therein where the right wine of Jurancon is to be bought , if it would please you to quaff a morning cup . `` `` There is smoke yonder upon the right . `` `` That is a village named Les Aldudes , and I know a hostel there also where the wine is of the best . It is said that the inn-keeper hath a buried treasure , and I doubt not , my fair lord , that if you grant me leave I could prevail upon him to tell us where he hath hid it . `` `` Nay , nay , Simon , '' said Sir Nigel curtly , `` I pray you to forget these free companion tricks . Ha ! Edricson , I see that you stare about you , and in good sooth these mountains must seem wondrous indeed to one who hath but seen Butser or the Portsdown hill . `` The broken and rugged road had wound along the crests of low hills , with wooded ridges on either side of it over which peeped the loftier mountains , the distant Peak of the South and the vast Altabisca , which towered high above them and cast its black shadow from left to right across the valley . From where they now stood they could look forward down a long vista of beech woods and jagged rock-strewn wilderness , all white with snow , to where the pass opened out upon the uplands beyond . Behind them they could still catch a glimpse of the gray plains of Gascony , and could see her rivers gleaming like coils of silver in the sunshine . As far as eye could see from among the rocky gorges and the bristles of the pine woods there came the quick twinkle and glitter of steel , while the wind brought with it sudden distant bursts of martial music from the great host which rolled by every road and by-path towards the narrow pass of Roncesvalles . On the cliffs on either side might also be seen the flash of arms and the waving of pennons where the force of Navarre looked down upon the army of strangers who passed through their territories . `` By Saint Paul ! '' said Sir Nigel , blinking up at them , `` I think that we have much to hope for from these cavaliers , for they cluster very thickly upon our flanks . Pass word to the men , Aylward , that they unsling their bows , for I have no doubt that there are some very worthy gentlemen yonder who may give us some opportunity for honorable advancement . `` `` I hear that the prince hath the King of Navarre as hostage , '' said Alleyne , `` and it is said that he hath sworn to put him to death if there be any attack upon us . `` `` It was not so that war was made when good King Edward first turned his hand to it , '' said Sir Nigel sadly . `` Ah ! Alleyne , I fear that you will never live to see such things , for the minds of men are more set upon money and gain than of old . By Saint Paul ! it was a noble sight when two great armies would draw together upon a certain day , and all who had a vow would ride forth to discharge themselves of it . What noble spear-runnings have I not seen , and even in an humble way had a part in , when cavaliers would run a course for the easing of their souls and for the love of their ladies ! Never a bad word have I for the French , for , though I have ridden twenty times up to their array , I have never yet failed to find some very gentle and worthy knight or squire who was willing to do what he might to enable me to attempt some small feat of arms . Then , when all cavaliers had been satisfied , the two armies would come to hand-strokes , and fight right merrily until one or other had the vantage . By Saint Paul ! it was not our wont in those days to pay gold for the opening of passes , nor would we hold a king as hostage lest his people come to thrusts with us . In good sooth , if the war is to be carried out in such a fashion , then it is grief to me that I ever came away from Castle Twynham , for I would not have left my sweet lady had I not thought that there were deeds of arms to be done . `` `` But surely , my fair lord , '' said Alleyne , `` you have done some great feats of arms since we left the Lady Loring . `` `` I can not call any to mind , '' answered Sir Nigel . `` There was the taking of the sea-rovers , and the holding of the keep against the Jacks . `` `` Nay , nay , '' said the knight , `` these were not feats of arms , but mere wayside ventures and the chances of travel . By Saint Paul ! if it were not that these hills are over-steep for Pommers , I would ride to these cavaliers of Navarre and see if there were not some among them who would help me to take this patch from mine eye . It is a sad sight to see this very fine pass , which my own Company here could hold against an army , and yet to ride through it with as little profit as though it were the lane from my kennels to the Avon . `` All morning Sir Nigel rode in a very ill-humor , with his Company tramping behind him . It was a toilsome march over broken ground and through snow , which came often as high as the knee , yet ere the sun had begun to sink they had reached the spot where the gorge opens out on to the uplands of Navarre , and could see the towers of Pampeluna jutting up against the southern sky-line . Here the Company were quartered in a scattered mountain hamlet , and Alleyne spent the day looking down upon the swarming army which poured with gleam of spears and flaunt of standards through the narrow pass . `` Hola , mon gar. , '' said Aylward , seating himself upon a boulder by his side . `` This is indeed a fine sight upon which it is good to look , and a man might go far ere he would see so many brave men and fine horses . By my hilt ! our little lord is wroth because we have come peacefully through the passes , but I will