or motion.I awoke to find myself on my back upon the grass in our lair within the thicket . Someone had brought the water from the brook , and Lord John was sprinkling my head with it , while Challenger and Summerlee were propping me up , with concern in their faces . For a moment I had a glimpse of the human spirits behind their scientific masks . It was really shock , rather than any injury , which had prostrated me , and in half-an-hour , in spite of aching head and stiff neck , I was sitting up and ready for anything . `` But you 've had the escape of your life , young fellah my lad , '' said Lord Roxton . `` When I heard your cry and ran forward , and saw your head twisted half-off and your stohwassers kickin ' in the air , I thought we were one short . I missed the beast in my flurry , but he dropped you all right and was off like a streak . By George ! I wish I had fifty men with rifles . I 'd clear out the whole infernal gang of them and leave this country a bit cleaner than we found it . `` It was clear now that the ape-men had in some way marked us down , and that we were watched on every side . We had not so much to fear from them during the day , but they would be very likely to rush us by night ; so the sooner we got away from their neighborhood the better . On three sides of us was absolute forest , and there we might find ourselves in an ambush . But on the fourth side -- -that which sloped down in the direction of the lake -- -there was only low scrub , with scattered trees and occasional open glades . It was , in fact , the route which I had myself taken in my solitary journey , and it led us straight for the Indian caves . This then must for every reason be our road.One great regret we had , and that was to leave our old camp behind us , not only for the sake of the stores which remained there , but even more because we were losing touch with Zambo , our link with the outside world . However , we had a fair supply of cartridges and all our guns , so , for a time at least , we could look after ourselves , and we hoped soon to have a chance of returning and restoring our communications with our negro . He had faithfully promised to stay where he was , and we had not a doubt that he would be as good as his word.It was in the early afternoon that we started upon our journey . The young chief walked at our head as our guide , but refused indignantly to carry any burden . Behind him came the two surviving Indians with our scanty possessions upon their backs . We four white men walked in the rear with rifles loaded and ready . As we started there broke from the thick silent woods behind us a sudden great ululation of the ape-men , which may have been a cheer of triumph at our departure or a jeer of contempt at our flight . Looking back we saw only the dense screen of trees , but that long-drawn yell told us how many of our enemies lurked among them . We saw no sign of pursuit , however , and soon we had got into more open country and beyond their power.As I tramped along , the rearmost of the four , I could not help smiling at the appearance of my three companions in front . Was this the luxurious Lord John Roxton who had sat that evening in the Albany amidst his Persian rugs and his pictures in the pink radiance of the tinted lights ? And was this the imposing Professor who had swelled behind the great desk in his massive study at Enmore Park ? And , finally , could this be the austere and prim figure which had risen before the meeting at the Zoological Institute ? No three tramps that one could have met in a Surrey lane could have looked more hopeless and bedraggled . We had , it is true , been only a week or so upon the top of the plateau , but all our spare clothing was in our camp below , and the one week had been a severe one upon us all , though least to me who had not to endure the handling of the ape-men . My three friends had all lost their hats , and had now bound handkerchiefs round their heads , their clothes hung in ribbons about them , and their unshaven grimy faces were hardly to be recognized . Both Summerlee and Challenger were limping heavily , while I still dragged my feet from weakness after the shock of the morning , and my neck was as stiff as a board from the murderous grip that held it . We were indeed a sorry crew , and I did not wonder to see our Indian companions glance back at us occasionally with horror and amazement on their faces.In the late afternoon we reached the margin of the lake , and as we emerged from the bush and saw the sheet of water stretching before us our native friends set up a shrill cry of joy and pointed eagerly in front of them . It was indeed a wonderful sight which lay before us . Sweeping over the glassy surface was a great flotilla of canoes coming straight for the shore upon which we stood . They were some miles out when we first saw them , but they shot forward with great swiftness , and were soon so near that the rowers could distinguish our persons . Instantly a thunderous shout of delight burst from them , and we saw them rise from their seats , waving their paddles and spears madly in the air . Then bending to their work once more , they flew across the intervening water , beached their boats upon the sloping sand , and rushed up to us , prostrating themselves with loud cries of greeting before the young chief . Finally one of them , an elderly man , with a necklace and bracelet of great lustrous glass beads and the skin of some beautiful mottled amber-colored animal slung over his shoulders , ran forward and embraced most tenderly the youth whom we had saved . He then looked at us and asked some questions , after which he stepped up with much dignity and embraced us also each in turn . Then , at his order , the whole tribe lay down upon the ground before us in homage . Personally I felt shy and uncomfortable at this obsequious adoration , and I read the same feeling in the faces of Roxton and Summerlee , but Challenger expanded like a flower in the sun . `` They may be undeveloped types , '' said he , stroking his beard and looking round at them , `` but their deportment in the presence of their superiors might be a lesson to some of our more advanced Europeans . Strange how correct are the instincts of the natural man ! `` It was clear that the natives had come out upon the war-path , for every man carried his spear -- -a long bamboo tipped with bone -- -his bow and arrows , and some sort of club or stone battle-axe slung at his side . Their dark , angry glances at the woods from which we had come , and the frequent repetition of the word `` Doda , '' made it clear enough that this was a rescue party who had set forth to save or revenge the old chief 's son , for such we gathered that the youth must be . A council was now held by the whole tribe squatting in a circle , whilst we sat near on a slab of basalt and watched their proceedings . Two or three warriors spoke , and finally our young friend made a spirited harangue with such eloquent features and gestures that we could understand it all as clearly as if we had known his language . `` What is the use of returning ? '' he said . `` Sooner or later the thing must be done . Your comrades have been murdered . What if I have returned safe ? These others have been done to death . There is no safety for any of us . We are assembled now and ready . '' Then he pointed to us . `` These strange men are our friends . They are great fighters , and they hate the ape-men even as we do . They command , '' here he pointed up to heaven , `` the thunder and the lightning . When shall we have such a chance again ? Let us go forward , and either die now or live for the future in safety . How else shall we go back unashamed to our women ? `` The little red warriors hung upon the words of the speaker , and when he had finished they burst into a roar of applause , waving their rude weapons in the air . The old chief stepped forward to us , and asked us some questions , pointing at the same time to the woods . Lord John made a sign to him that he should wait for an answer and then he turned to us . `` Well , it 's up to you to say what you will do , '' said he ; `` for my part I have a score to settle with these monkey-folk , and if it ends by wiping them off the face of the earth I do n't see that the earth need fret about it . I 'm goin ' with our little red pals and I mean to see them through the scrap . What do you say , young fellah ? `` `` Of course I will come . `` `` And you , Challenger ? `` `` I will assuredly co-operate . `` `` And you , Summerlee ? `` `` We seem to be drifting very far from the object of this expedition , Lord John . I assure you that I little thought when I left my professional chair in London that it was for the purpose of heading a raid of savages upon a colony of anthropoid apes . `` `` To such base uses do we come , '' said Lord John , smiling . `` But we are up against it , so what 's the decision ? `` `` It seems a most questionable step , '' said Summerlee , argumentative to the last , `` but if you are all going , I hardly see how I can remain behind . `` `` Then it is settled , '' said Lord John , and turning to the chief he nodded and slapped his rifle.The old fellow clasped our hands , each in turn , while his men cheered louder than ever . It was too late to advance that night , so the Indians settled down into a rude bivouac . On all sides their fires began to glimmer and smoke . Some of them who had disappeared into the jungle came back presently driving a young iguanodon before them . Like the others , it had a daub of asphalt upon its shoulder ,