There was no way out of it . It was only at the outset that I resisted . The force soon became too overmastering for that . I thank goodness that there were no watchers there to interfere with me . I could not have answered for myself if there had been . And , besides the determination to get out , there came to me , also , the keenest and coolest judgment in choosing my means . I lit a candle and endeavored , kneeling in front of the door , to pull the key through with the feather-end of a quill pen . It was just too short and pushed it further away . Then with quiet persistence I got a paper-knife out of one of the drawers , and with that I managed to draw the key back . I opened the door , stepped into my study , took a photograph of myself from the bureau , wrote something across it , placed it in the inside pocket of my coat , and then started off for Wilson's.It was all wonderfully clear , and yet disassociated from the rest of my life , as the incidents of even the most vivid dream might be . A peculiar double consciousness possessed me . There was the predominant alien will , which was bent upon drawing me to the side of its owner , and there was the feebler protesting personality , which I recognized as being myself , tugging feebly at the overmastering impulse as a led terrier might at its chain . I can remember recognizing these two conflicting forces , but I recall nothing of my walk , nor of how I was admitted to the house.Very vivid , however , is my recollection of how I met Miss Penclosa . She was reclining on the sofa in the little boudoir in which our experiments had usually been carried out . Her head was rested on her hand , and a tiger-skin rug had been partly drawn over her . She looked up expectantly as I entered , and , as the lamp-light fell upon her face , I could see that she was very pale and thin , with dark hollows under her eyes . She smiled at me , and pointed to a stool beside her . It was with her left hand that she pointed , and I , running eagerly forward , seized it , -- -I loathe myself as I think of it , -- -and pressed it passionately to my lips . Then , seating myself upon the stool , and still retaining her hand , I gave her the photograph which I had brought with me , and talked and talked and talked -- -of my love for her , of my grief over her illness , of my joy at her recovery , of the misery it was to me to be absent a single evening from her side . She lay quietly looking down at me with imperious eyes and her provocative smile . Once I remember that she passed her hand over my hair as one caresses a dog ; and it gave me pleasure -- -the caress . I thrilled under it . I was her slave , body and soul , and for the moment I rejoiced in my slavery.And then came the blessed change . Never tell me that there is not a Providence ! I was on the brink of perdition . My feet were on the edge . Was it a coincidence that at that very instant help should come ? No , no , no ; there is a Providence , and its hand has drawn me back . There is something in the universe stronger than this devil woman with her tricks . Ah , what a balm to my heart it is to think so ! As I looked up at her I was conscious of a change in her . Her face , which had been pale before , was now ghastly . Her eyes were dull , and the lids drooped heavily over them . Above all , the look of serene confidence had gone from her features . Her mouth had weakened . Her forehead had puckered . She was frightened and undecided . And as I watched the change my own spirit fluttered and struggled , trying hard to tear itself from the grip which held it -- -a grip which , from moment to moment , grew less secure . `` Austin , '' she whispered , `` I have tried to do too much . I was not strong enough . I have not recovered yet from my illness . But I could not live longer without seeing you . You wo n't leave me , Austin ? This is only a passing weakness . If you will only give me five minutes , I shall be myself again . Give me the small decanter from the table in the window . `` But I had regained my soul . With her waning strength the influence had cleared away from me and left me free . And I was aggressive -- -bitterly , fiercely aggressive . For once at least I could make this woman understand what my real feelings toward her were . My soul was filled with a hatred as bestial as the love against which it was a reaction . It was the savage , murderous passion of the revolted serf . I could have taken the crutch from her side and beaten her face in with it . She threw her hands up , as if to avoid a blow , and cowered away from me into the corner of the settee . `` The brandy ! '' she gasped . `` The brandy ! `` I took the decanter and poured it over the roots of a palm in the window . Then I snatched the photograph from her hand and tore it into a hundred pieces . `` You vile woman , '' I said , `` if I did my duty to society , you would never leave this room alive ! `` `` I love you , Austin ; I love you ! '' she wailed . `` Yes , '' I cried , `` and Charles Sadler before . And how many others before that ? `` `` Charles Sadler ! '' she gasped . `` He has spoken to you ? So , Charles Sadler , Charles Sadler ! '' Her voice came through her white lips like a snake 's hiss . `` Yes , I know you , and others shall know you , too . You shameless creature ! You knew how I stood . And yet you used your vile power to bring me to your side . You may , perhaps , do so again , but at least you will remember that you have heard me say that I love Miss Marden from the bottom of my soul , and that I loathe you , abhor you ! `` The very sight of you and the sound of your voice fill me with horror and disgust . The thought of you is repulsive . That is how I feel toward you , and if it pleases you by your tricks to draw me again to your side as you have done to-night , you will at least , I should think , have little satisfaction in trying to make a lover out of a man who has told you his real opinion of you . You may put what words you will into my mouth , but you can not help remembering -- -- -- '' I stopped , for the woman 's head had fallen back , and she had fainted . She could not bear to hear what I had to say to her ! What a glow of satisfaction it gives me to think that , come what may , in the future she can never misunderstand my true feelings toward her . But what will occur in the future ? What will she do next ? I dare not think of it . Oh , if only I could hope that she will leave me alone ! But when I think of what I said to her -- -- -- Never mind ; I have been stronger than she for once.April 11 . I hardly slept last night , and found myself in the morning so unstrung and feverish that I was compelled to ask Pratt-Haldane to do my lecture for me . It is the first that I have ever missed . I rose at mid-day , but my head is aching , my hands quivering , and my nerves in a pitiable state.Who should come round this evening but Wilson . He has just come back from London , where he has lectured , read papers , convened meetings , exposed a medium , conducted a series of experiments on thought transference , entertained Professor Richet of Paris , spent hours gazing into a crystal , and obtained some evidence as to the passage of matter through matter . All this he poured into my ears in a single gust . `` But you ! '' he cried at last . `` You are not looking well . And Miss Penclosa is quite prostrated to-day . How about the experiments ? `` `` I have abandoned them . `` `` Tut , tut ! Why ? `` `` The subject seems to me to be a dangerous one . `` Out came his big brown note-book . `` This is of great interest , '' said he . `` What are your grounds for saying that it is a dangerous one ? Please give your facts in chronological order , with approximate dates and names of reliable witnesses with their permanent addresses . `` `` First of all , '' I asked , `` would you tell me whether you have collected any cases where the mesmerist has gained a command over the subject and has used it for evil purposes ? '' '' Dozens ! '' he cried exultantly . `` Crime by suggestion -- -- -- '' '' I do n't mean suggestion . I mean where a sudden impulse comes from a person at a distance -- -an uncontrollable impulse. '' '' Obsession ! '' he shrieked , in an ecstasy of delight . `` It is the rarest condition . We have eight cases , five well attested . You do n't mean to say -- -- -- '' His exultation made him hardly articulate . `` No , I do n't , '' said I . `` Good-evening ! You will excuse me , but I am not very well to-night . '' And so at last I got rid of him , still brandishing his pencil and his note-book . My troubles may be bad to hear , but at least it is better to hug them to myself than to have myself exhibited by Wilson , like a freak at a fair . He has lost sight of human beings . Every thing to him is a case and a phenomenon . I will die before I speak to him again upon the matter.April 12 . Yesterday was a blessed day of quiet , and I enjoyed an uneventful night . Wilson 's presence is a great consolation . What can the woman do now ? Surely , when she has heard me say what I have said , she will conceive the same disgust for me which I have for her . She could not , no , she COULD not , desire to have a lover who had insulted