our jurisdiction and to take the police voluntarily into your complete confidence . It may be that I am myself at fault for not following up the hint which you conveyed to me through my friend , Dr. Watson ; but , at that time I had every reason to believe that you were directly concerned in the crime . Now I am assured that this is not so . At the same time , there is much that is unexplained , and I should strongly recommend that you ask Mr. Douglas to tell us his own story. '' Mrs . Douglas gave a cry of astonishment at Holmes 's words . The detectives and I must have echoed it , when we were aware of a man who seemed to have emerged from the wall , who advanced now from the gloom of the corner in which he had appeared . Mrs. Douglas turned , and in an instant her arms were round him . Barker had seized his outstretched hand . `` It 's best this way , Jack , '' his wife repeated ; `` I am sure that it is best . `` `` Indeed , yes , Mr. Douglas , '' said Sherlock Holmes , `` I am sure that you will find it best . `` The man stood blinking at us with the dazed look of one who comes from the dark into the light . It was a remarkable face , bold gray eyes , a strong , short-clipped , grizzled moustache , a square , projecting chin , and a humorous mouth . He took a good look at us all , and then to my amazement he advanced to me and handed me a bundle of paper . `` I 've heard of you , '' said he in a voice which was not quite English and not quite American , but was altogether mellow and pleasing . `` You are the historian of this bunch . Well , Dr. Watson , you 've never had such a story as that pass through your hands before , and I 'll lay my last dollar on that . Tell it your own way ; but there are the facts , and you ca n't miss the public so long as you have those . I 've been cooped up two days , and I 've spent the daylight hours -- -as much daylight as I could get in that rat trap -- -in putting the thing into words . You 're welcome to them -- -you and your public . There 's the story of the Valley of Fear . `` `` That 's the past , Mr. Douglas , '' said Sherlock Holmes quietly . `` What we desire now is to hear your story of the present . `` `` You 'll have it , sir , '' said Douglas . `` May I smoke as I talk ? Well , thank you , Mr. Holmes . You 're a smoker yourself , if I remember right , and you 'll guess what it is to be sitting for two days with tobacco in your pocket and afraid that the smell will give you away . '' He leaned against the mantelpiece and sucked at the cigar which Holmes had handed him . `` I 've heard of you , Mr. Holmes . I never guessed that I should meet you . But before you are through with that , '' he nodded at my papers , `` you will say I 've brought you something fresh . `` Inspector MacDonald had been staring at the newcomer with the greatest amazement . `` Well , this fairly beats me ! '' he cried at last . `` If you are Mr. John Douglas of Birlstone Manor , then whose death have we been investigating for these two days , and where in the world have you sprung from now ? You seemed to me to come out of the floor like a jack-in-a-box . `` `` Ah , Mr. Mac , '' said Holmes , shaking a reproving forefinger , `` you would not read that excellent local compilation which described the concealment of King Charles . People did not hide in those days without excellent hiding places , and the hiding place that has once been used may be again . I had persuaded myself that we should find Mr. Douglas under this roof . `` `` And how long have you been playing this trick upon us , Mr . Holmes ? '' said the inspector angrily . `` How long have you allowed us to waste ourselves upon a search that you knew to be an absurd one ? `` `` Not one instant , my dear Mr. Mac . Only last night did I form my views of the case . As they could not be put to the proof until this evening , I invited you and your colleague to take a holiday for the day . Pray what more could I do ? When I found the suit of clothes in the moat , it at once became apparent to me that the body we had found could not have been the body of Mr. John Douglas at all , but must be that of the bicyclist from Tunbridge Wells . No other conclusion was possible . Therefore I had to determine where Mr. John Douglas himself could be , and the balance of probability was that with the connivance of his wife and his friend he was concealed in a house which had such conveniences for a fugitive , and awaiting quieter times when he could make his final escape . `` `` Well , you figured it out about right , '' said Douglas approvingly . `` I thought I 'd dodge your British law ; for I was not sure how I stood under it , and also I saw my chance to throw these hounds once for all off my track . Mind you , from first to last I have done nothing to be ashamed of , and nothing that I would not do again ; but you 'll judge that for yourselves when I tell you my story . Never mind warning me , Inspector : I 'm ready to stand pat upon the truth . `` I 'm not going to begin at the beginning . That 's all there , '' he indicated my bundle of papers , `` and a mighty queer yarn you 'll find it . It all comes down to this : That there are some men that have good cause to hate me and would give their last dollar to know that they had got me . So long as I am alive and they are alive , there is no safety in this world for me . They hunted me from Chicago to California , then they chased me out of America ; but when I married and settled down in this quiet spot I thought my last years were going to be peaceable . `` I never explained to my wife how things were . Why should I pull her into it ? She would never have a quiet moment again ; but would always be imagining trouble . I fancy she knew something , for I may have dropped a word here or a word there ; but until yesterday , after you gentlemen had seen her , she never knew the rights of the matter . She told you all she knew , and so did Barker here ; for on the night when this thing happened there was mighty little time for explanations . She knows everything now , and I would have been a wiser man if I had told her sooner . But it was a hard question , dear , '' he took her hand for an instant in his own , `` and I acted for the best . `` Well , gentlemen , the day before these happenings I was over in Tunbridge Wells , and I got a glimpse of a man in the street . It was only a glimpse ; but I have a quick eye for these things , and I never doubted who it was . It was the worst enemy I had among them all -- -one who has been after me like a hungry wolf after a caribou all these years . I knew there was trouble coming , and I came home and made ready for it . I guessed I 'd fight through it all right on my own , my luck was a proverb in the States about '76 . I never doubted that it would be with me still . `` I was on my guard all that next day , and never went out into the park . It 's as well , or he 'd have had the drop on me with that buckshot gun of his before ever I could draw on him . After the bridge was up -- -my mind was always more restful when that bridge was up in the evenings -- -I put the thing clear out of my head . I never dreamed of his getting into the house and waiting for me . But when I made my round in my dressing gown , as was my habit , I had no sooner entered the study than I scented danger . I guess when a man has had dangers in his life -- -and I 've had more than most in my time -- -there is a kind of sixth sense that waves the red flag . I saw the signal clear enough , and yet I could n't tell you why . Next instant I spotted a boot under the window curtain , and then I saw why plain enough . `` I 'd just the one candle that was in my hand ; but there was a good light from the hall lamp through the open door . I put down the candle and jumped for a hammer that I 'd left on the mantel . At the same moment he sprang at me . I saw the glint of a knife , and I lashed at him with the hammer . I got him somewhere ; for the knife tinkled down on the floor . He dodged round the table as quick as an eel , and a moment later he 'd got his gun from under his coat . I heard him cock it ; but I had got hold of it before he could fire . I had it by the barrel , and we wrestled for it all ends up for a minute or more . It was death to the man that lost his grip . `` He never lost his grip ; but he got it butt downward for a moment too long . Maybe it was I that pulled the trigger . Maybe we just jolted it off between us . Anyhow , he got both barrels in the face , and there I was , staring down at all that was left of Ted Baldwin . I 'd recognized him in the township , and again when he sprang for me ; but his own mother would n't recognize him as I saw him then . I 'm used to rough work ; but I fairly turned sick at the sight of him . `` I was hanging on the side of the table when Barker came hurrying down . I heard my wife coming , and I ran to the door and stopped her . It was no sight for a woman . I promised I 'd come to