she is like a ray of sunshine in the house . It was like drawing his teeth to get him to consent to this little holiday , but I stuck at it until I wearied him out -- -fairly wearied him out . '' The little doctor chuckled at the thought of his victory , and stretched out his thick legs towards the fire . `` This examination will prevent me from being with you as much as I wish . `` `` That 's right , my boy ; let nothing interfere with your work . `` `` Still , I think I am pretty safe . I am glad they have come now , for next Wednesday is the international football match . Garraway and I are the two Scotch half-backs . You must all come down and see it . `` `` I 'll tell you what , Dimsdale , '' said Garraway , reappearing in the doorway , `` if we do n't hurry up we shall see nothing of the election . It is close on twelve . `` `` I am all ready , '' cried Dr. Dimsdale , jumping to his feet and buttoning his coat . `` Let us be off , then , '' said his son ; and picking up hats and sticks they clattered off down the lodging-house stairs.A rectorial election is a peculiarly Scotch institution , and , however it may strike the impartial observer , it is regarded by the students themselves as a rite of extreme solemnity and importance from which grave issues may depend . To hear the speeches and addresses of rival orators one would suppose that the integrity of the constitution and the very existence of the empire hung upon the return of their special nominee . Two candidates are chosen from the most eminent of either party and a day is fixed for the polling . Every undergraduate has a vote , but the professors have no voice in the matter . As the duties are nominal and the position honourable , there is never any lack of distinguished aspirants for a vacancy . Occasionally some well-known literary or scientific man is invited to become a candidate , but as a rule the election is fought upon strictly political lines , with all the old-fashioned accompaniments of a Parliamentary contest.For months before the great day there is bustle and stir . Secret committees meet , rules are formulated , and insidious agents prowl about with an eye to the political training of those who have not yet nailed their colours to any particular mast . Then comes a grand meeting of the Liberal Students ' Association , which is trumped by a dinner of the Undergraduates ' Conservative Society . The campaign is then in full swing . Great boards appear at the University gates , on which pithy satires against one or other candidate , parodies on songs , quotations from their speeches , and gaudily painted cartoons are posted . Those who are supposed to be able to feel the pulse of the University move about with the weight of much knowledge upon their brows , throwing out hints as to the probable majority one way or the other . Some profess to know it to a nicety . Others shake their heads and remark vaguely that there is not much to choose either way . So week after week goes by , until the excitement reaches a climax when the date of the election comes round.There was no need upon that day for Dr. Dimsdale or any other stranger in the town to ask his way to the University , for the whooping and yelling which proceeded from that usually decorous building might have been heard from Prince 's Street to Newington . In front of the gates was a dense crowd of townspeople peering through into the quadrangle , and deriving much entertainment from the movements of the lively young gentlemen within . Large numbers of the more peaceable undergraduates stood about under the arches , and these quickly made a way for the newcomers , for both Garraway and Dimsdale as noted athletes commanded a respect among their fellow-students which medallists and honours men might look for in vain.The broad open quadrangle , and all the numerous balconies and terraces which surround it , were crowded with an excited mob of students . The whole three thousand odd electors who stand upon the college rolls appeared to be present , and the noise which they were making would have reflected credit on treble their number . The dense crowd surged and seethed without pause or rest . Now and again some orator would be hoisted up on the shoulders of his fellows , when an oscillation of the crowd would remove his supporters and down he would come , only to be succeeded by another at some other part of the assembly . The name of either candidate would produce roars of applause and equally vigorous howls of execration . Those who were lucky enough to be in the balconies above hurled down missiles on the crowd beneath -- -peas , eggs , potatoes , and bags of flour or of sulphur ; while those below , wherever they found room to swing an arm , returned the fusillade with interest . The doctor 's views of academical serenity and the high converse of pallid students vanished into thin air as he gazed upon the mad tumultuous scene . Yet , in spite of his fifty years , he laughed as heartily as any boy at the wild pranks of the young politicians , and the ruin which was wrought upon broad-cloth coat and shooting jacket by the hail of unsavoury projectiles.The crowd was most dense and most noisy in front of the class-room in which the counting of the votes was going forward . At one the result was to be announced , and as the long hand of the great clock crept towards the hour , a hush of expectation fell upon the assembly . The brazen clang broke harshly out , and at the same moment the folding doors were flung open , and a knot of men rushed out into the crowd , who swirled and eddied round them . The centre of the throng was violently agitated , and the whole mass of people swayed outwards and inwards . For a minute or two the excited combatants seethed and struggled without a clue as to the cause of the commotion . Then the corner of a large placard was elevated above the heads of the rioters , on which was visible the word `` Liberal '' in great letters , but before it could be raised further it was torn down , and the struggle became fiercer than ever . Up came the placard again -- -the other corner this time -- -with the word `` Majority '' upon it , and then immediately vanished as before . Enough had been seen , however , to show which way the victory had gone , and shouts of triumph arose everywhere , with waving of hats and clatter of sticks . Meanwhile , in the centre the two parties fought round the placard , and the commotion began to cover a wider area , as either side was reinforced by fresh supporters . One gigantic Liberal seized the board , and held it aloft for a moment , so that it could be seen in its entirety by the whole multitude : # # # # # LIBERAL MAJORITY,241.But his triumph was short-lived . A stick descended upon his head , his heels were tripped up , and he and his placard rolled upon the ground together . The victors succeeded , however , in forcing their way to the extreme end of the quadrangle , where , as every Edinburgh man knows , the full-length statue of Sir David Brewster looks down upon the classic ground which he loved so well . An audacious Radical swarmed up upon the pedestal and balanced the obnoxious notice on the marble arms of the professor . Thus converted into a political partisan , the revered inventor of the kaleidoscope became the centre of a furious struggle , the vanquished politicians making the most desperate efforts to destroy the symbol of their opponents ' victory , while the others offered an equally vigorous resistance to their attacks . The struggle was still proceeding when Dimsdale removed his father , for it was impossible to say what form the riot might assume . `` What Goths ! what barbarians ! '' cried the little doctor , as they walked down the Bridges . `` And this is my dream of refined quiet and studious repose ! `` `` They are not always like that , sir , '' said his son apologetically . `` They were certainly a little jolly to-day . `` `` A little jolly ! '' cried the doctor . `` You rogue , Tom . I believe if I had not been there you would have been their ringleader . `` He glanced from one to the other , and it was so evident from the expression of their faces that he had just hit the mark , that he burst into a great guffaw of laughter , in which , after a moment 's hesitation , his two young companions heartily joined.The rectorial election had come and had gone , but another great event had taken its place . It was the day of the England and Scotland Rugby match.Better weather could not have been desired . The morning had been hazy , but as the sun shone out the fog had gradually risen , until now there remained but a suspicion of it , floating like a plume , above the frowning walls of Edinburgh Castle , and twining a fairy wreath round the unfinished columns of the national monument upon the Calton Hill . The broad stretch of the Prince 's Street Gardens , which occupy the valley between the old town and the new , looked green and spring-like , and their fountains sparkled merrily in the sunshine . Their wide expanse , well-trimmed and bepathed , formed a strange contrast to the rugged piles of grim old houses which bounded them upon the other side and the massive grandeur of the great hill beyond , which lies like a crouching lion keeping watch and ward , day and night , over the ancient capital of the Scottish kings . Travellers who have searched the whole world round have found no fairer view.So thought three of the genus who were ensconced that forenoon in the bow windows of theRoyal Hoteland gazed across the bright green valley at the dull historical background beyond . One we already know , a stoutish gentleman , ruddy-faced and black-eyed , with check trousers , light waistcoat and heavy chain , legs widely parted , his hands in his pockets , and on his face that expression of irreverent and critical approval with which the travelled Briton usually regards the works of nature . By his side was a young lady in a tight-fitting travelling dress , with trim leather belt and snow-white collar and cuffs . There was no criticism in her sweet face , now flushed with excitement -- - nothing but unqualified wonder and admiration at the beautiful scene before her . An elderly placid-faced woman sat in a basket chair in the recess , and looked up with quiet loving eyes at the swift play of emotions which swept over the girl 's eager features . `` Oh , Uncle George , '' she cried , `` it is really too heavenly . I can not realize that we are