waggon , which was conspicuous for its great size and for the gaudiness and smartness of its appearance . Six horses were yoked to it , whereas the others were furnished with two , or , at most , four a-piece . Beside the driver there sat a man who could not have been more than thirty years of age , but whose massive head and resolute expression marked him as a leader . He was reading a brown-backed volume , but as the crowd approached he laid it aside , and listened attentively to an account of the episode . Then he turned to the two castaways . `` If we take you with us , '' he said , in solemn words , `` it can only be as believers in our own creed . We shall have no wolves in our fold . Better far that your bones should bleach in this wilderness than that you should prove to be that little speck of decay which in time corrupts the whole fruit . Will you come with us on these terms ? `` `` Guess I 'll come with you on any terms , '' said Ferrier , with such emphasis that the grave Elders could not restrain a smile . The leader alone retained his stern , impressive expression . `` Take him , Brother Stangerson , '' he said , `` give him food and drink , and the child likewise . Let it be your task also to teach him our holy creed . We have delayed long enough . Forward ! On , on to Zion ! `` `` On , on to Zion ! '' cried the crowd of Mormons , and the words rippled down the long caravan , passing from mouth to mouth until they died away in a dull murmur in the far distance . With a cracking of whips and a creaking of wheels the great waggons got into motion , and soon the whole caravan was winding along once more . The Elder to whose care the two waifs had been committed , led them to his waggon , where a meal was already awaiting them . `` You shall remain here , '' he said . `` In a few days you will have recovered from your fatigues . In the meantime , remember that now and for ever you are of our religion . Brigham Young has said it , and he has spoken with the voice of Joseph Smith , which is the voice of God . `` THIS is not the place to commemorate the trials and privations endured by the immigrant Mormons before they came to their final haven . From the shores of the Mississippi to the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains they had struggled on with a constancy almost unparalleled in history . The savage man , and the savage beast , hunger , thirst , fatigue , and disease -- -every impediment which Nature could place in the way , had all been overcome with Anglo-Saxon tenacity . Yet the long journey and the accumulated terrors had shaken the hearts of the stoutest among them . There was not one who did not sink upon his knees in heartfelt prayer when they saw the broad valley of Utah bathed in the sunlight beneath them , and learned from the lips of their leader that this was the promised land , and that these virgin acres were to be theirs for evermore.Young speedily proved himself to be a skilful administrator as well as a resolute chief . Maps were drawn and charts prepared , in which the future city was sketched out . All around farms were apportioned and allotted in proportion to the standing of each individual . The tradesman was put to his trade and the artisan to his calling . In the town streets and squares sprang up , as if by magic . In the country there was draining and hedging , planting and clearing , until the next summer saw the whole country golden with the wheat crop . Everything prospered in the strange settlement . Above all , the great temple which they had erected in the centre of the city grew ever taller and larger . From the first blush of dawn until the closing of the twilight , the clatter of the hammer and the rasp of the saw was never absent from the monument which the immigrants erected to Him who had led them safe through many dangers.The two castaways , John Ferrier and the little girl who had shared his fortunes and had been adopted as his daughter , accompanied the Mormons to the end of their great pilgrimage . Little Lucy Ferrier was borne along pleasantly enough in Elder Stangerson 's waggon , a retreat which she shared with the Mormon 's three wives and with his son , a headstrong forward boy of twelve . Having rallied , with the elasticity of childhood , from the shock caused by her mother 's death , she soon became a pet with the women , and reconciled herself to this new life in her moving canvas-covered home . In the meantime Ferrier having recovered from his privations , distinguished himself as a useful guide and an indefatigable hunter . So rapidly did he gain the esteem of his new companions , that when they reached the end of their wanderings , it was unanimously agreed that he should be provided with as large and as fertile a tract of land as any of the settlers , with the exception of Young himself , and of Stangerson , Kemball , Johnston , and Drebber , who were the four principal Elders.On the farm thus acquired John Ferrier built himself a substantial log-house , which received so many additions in succeeding years that it grew into a roomy villa . He was a man of a practical turn of mind , keen in his dealings and skilful with his hands . His iron constitution enabled him to work morning and evening at improving and tilling his lands . Hence it came about that his farm and all that belonged to him prospered exceedingly . In three years he was better off than his neighbours , in six he was well-to-do , in nine he was rich , and in twelve there were not half a dozen men in the whole of Salt Lake City who could compare with him . From the great inland sea to the distant Wahsatch Mountains there was no name better known than that of John Ferrier.There was one way and only one in which he offended the susceptibilities of his co-religionists . No argument or persuasion could ever induce him to set up a female establishment after the manner of his companions . He never gave reasons for this persistent refusal , but contented himself by resolutely and inflexibly adhering to his determination . There were some who accused him of lukewarmness in his adopted religion , and others who put it down to greed of wealth and reluctance to incur expense . Others , again , spoke of some early love affair , and of a fair-haired girl who had pined away on the shores of the Atlantic . Whatever the reason , Ferrier remained strictly celibate . In every other respect he conformed to the religion of the young settlement , and gained the name of being an orthodox and straight-walking man.Lucy Ferrier grew up within the log-house , and assisted her adopted father in all his undertakings . The keen air of the mountains and the balsamic odour of the pine trees took the place of nurse and mother to the young girl . As year succeeded to year she grew taller and stronger , her cheek more rudy , and her step more elastic . Many a wayfarer upon the high road which ran by Ferrier 's farm felt long-forgotten thoughts revive in their mind as they watched her lithe girlish figure tripping through the wheatfields , or met her mounted upon her father 's mustang , and managing it with all the ease and grace of a true child of the West . So the bud blossomed into a flower , and the year which saw her father the richest of the farmers left her as fair a specimen of American girlhood as could be found in the whole Pacific slope.It was not the father , however , who first discovered that the child had developed into the woman . It seldom is in such cases . That mysterious change is too subtle and too gradual to be measured by dates . Least of all does the maiden herself know it until the tone of a voice or the touch of a hand sets her heart thrilling within her , and she learns , with a mixture of pride and of fear , that a new and a larger nature has awoken within her . There are few who can not recall that day and remember the one little incident which heralded the dawn of a new life . In the case of Lucy Ferrier the occasion was serious enough in itself , apart from its future influence on her destiny and that of many besides.It was a warm June morning , and the Latter Day Saints were as busy as the bees whose hive they have chosen for their emblem . In the fields and in the streets rose the same hum of human industry . Down the dusty high roads defiled long streams of heavily-laden mules , all heading to the west , for the gold fever had broken out in California , and the Overland Route lay through the City of the Elect . There , too , were droves of sheep and bullocks coming in from the outlying pasture lands , and trains of tired immigrants , men and horses equally weary of their interminable journey . Through all this motley assemblage , threading her way with the skill of an accomplished rider , there galloped Lucy Ferrier , her fair face flushed with the exercise and her long chestnut hair floating out behind her . She had a commission from her father in the City , and was dashing in as she had done many a time before , with all the fearlessness of youth , thinking only of her task and how it was to be performed . The travel-stained adventurers gazed after her in astonishment , and even the unemotional Indians , journeying in with their pelties , relaxed their accustomed stoicism as they marvelled at the beauty of the pale-faced maiden.She had reached the outskirts of the city when she found the road blocked by a great drove of cattle , driven by a half-dozen wild-looking herdsmen from the plains . In her impatience she endeavoured to pass this obstacle by pushing her horse into what appeared to be a gap . Scarcely had she got fairly into it , however , before the beasts closed in behind her , and she found herself completely imbedded in the moving stream of fierce-eyed , long-horned bullocks . Accustomed as she was to deal with cattle , she was not alarmed at her situation , but took advantage of every opportunity to urge her horse on in the hopes of pushing her way through the cavalcade . Unfortunately the horns of one of the creatures , either by accident or design , came in violent contact with the flank of the mustang , and excited it to madness . In an instant it reared up upon its hind legs with a snort of rage , and pranced and tossed in a way that would have unseated any but a most skilful rider . The situation