, '' rejoined young Drebber , smirking at his own reflection in the glass . `` We will leave it all to her decision . `` During this dialogue , John Ferrier had stood fuming in the doorway , hardly able to keep his riding-whip from the backs of his two visitors . `` Look here , '' he said at last , striding up to them , `` when my daughter summons you , you can come , but until then I do n't want to see your faces again . `` The two young Mormons stared at him in amazement . In their eyes this competition between them for the maiden 's hand was the highest of honours both to her and her father . `` There are two ways out of the room , '' cried Ferrier ; `` there is the door , and there is the window . Which do you care to use ? `` His brown face looked so savage , and his gaunt hands so threatening , that his visitors sprang to their feet and beat a hurried retreat . The old farmer followed them to the door . `` Let me know when you have settled which it is to be , '' he said , sardonically . `` You shall smart for this ! '' Stangerson cried , white with rage . `` You have defied the Prophet and the Council of Four . You shall rue it to the end of your days . `` `` The hand of the Lord shall be heavy upon you , '' cried young Drebber ; `` He will arise and smite you ! `` `` Then I 'll start the smiting , '' exclaimed Ferrier furiously , and would have rushed upstairs for his gun had not Lucy seized him by the arm and restrained him . Before he could escape from her , the clatter of horses ' hoofs told him that they were beyond his reach . `` The young canting rascals ! '' he exclaimed , wiping the perspiration from his forehead ; `` I would sooner see you in your grave , my girl , than the wife of either of them . `` `` And so should I , father , '' she answered , with spirit ; `` but Jefferson will soon be here. '' '' Yes . It will not be long before he comes . The sooner the better , for we do not know what their next move may be . `` It was , indeed , high time that someone capable of giving advice and help should come to the aid of the sturdy old farmer and his adopted daughter . In the whole history of the settlement there had never been such a case of rank disobedience to the authority of the Elders . If minor errors were punished so sternly , what would be the fate of this arch rebel . Ferrier knew that his wealth and position would be of no avail to him . Others as well known and as rich as himself had been spirited away before now , and their goods given over to the Church . He was a brave man , but he trembled at the vague , shadowy terrors which hung over him . Any known danger he could face with a firm lip , but this suspense was unnerving . He concealed his fears from his daughter , however , and affected to make light of the whole matter , though she , with the keen eye of love , saw plainly that he was ill at ease.He expected that he would receive some message or remonstrance from Young as to his conduct , and he was not mistaken , though it came in an unlooked-for manner . Upon rising next morning he found , to his surprise , a small square of paper pinned on to the coverlet of his bed just over his chest . On it was printed , in bold straggling letters : -- - '' Twenty-nine days are given you for amendment , and then -- -- -- '' The dash was more fear-inspiring than any threat could have been . How this warning came into his room puzzled John Ferrier sorely , for his servants slept in an outhouse , and the doors and windows had all been secured . He crumpled the paper up and said nothing to his daughter , but the incident struck a chill into his heart . The twenty-nine days were evidently the balance of the month which Young had promised . What strength or courage could avail against an enemy armed with such mysterious powers ? The hand which fastened that pin might have struck him to the heart , and he could never have known who had slain him.Still more shaken was he next morning . They had sat down to their breakfast when Lucy with a cry of surprise pointed upwards . In the centre of the ceiling was scrawled , with a burned stick apparently , the number 28 . To his daughter it was unintelligible , and he did not enlighten her . That night he sat up with his gun and kept watch and ward . He saw and he heard nothing , and yet in the morning a great 27 had been painted upon the outside of his door.Thus day followed day ; and as sure as morning came he found that his unseen enemies had kept their register , and had marked up in some conspicuous position how many days were still left to him out of the month of grace . Sometimes the fatal numbers appeared upon the walls , sometimes upon the floors , occasionally they were on small placards stuck upon the garden gate or the railings . With all his vigilance John Ferrier could not discover whence these daily warnings proceeded . A horror which was almost superstitious came upon him at the sight of them . He became haggard and restless , and his eyes had the troubled look of some hunted creature . He had but one hope in life now , and that was for the arrival of the young hunter from Nevada.Twenty had changed to fifteen and fifteen to ten , but there was no news of the absentee . One by one the numbers dwindled down , and still there came no sign of him . Whenever a horseman clattered down the road , or a driver shouted at his team , the old farmer hurried to the gate thinking that help had arrived at last . At last , when he saw five give way to four and that again to three , he lost heart , and abandoned all hope of escape . Single-handed , and with his limited knowledge of the mountains which surrounded the settlement , he knew that he was powerless . The more-frequented roads were strictly watched and guarded , and none could pass along them without an order from the Council . Turn which way he would , there appeared to be no avoiding the blow which hung over him . Yet the old man never wavered in his resolution to part with life itself before he consented to what he regarded as his daughter 's dishonour.He was sitting alone one evening pondering deeply over his troubles , and searching vainly for some way out of them . That morning had shown the figure 2 upon the wall of his house , and the next day would be the last of the allotted time . What was to happen then ? All manner of vague and terrible fancies filled his imagination . And his daughter -- -what was to become of her after he was gone ? Was there no escape from the invisible network which was drawn all round them . He sank his head upon the table and sobbed at the thought of his own impotence.What was that ? In the silence he heard a gentle scratching sound -- -low , but very distinct in the quiet of the night . It came from the door of the house . Ferrier crept into the hall and listened intently . There was a pause for a few moments , and then the low insidious sound was repeated . Someone was evidently tapping very gently upon one of the panels of the door . Was it some midnight assassin who had come to carry out the murderous orders of the secret tribunal ? Or was it some agent who was marking up that the last day of grace had arrived . John Ferrier felt that instant death would be better than the suspense which shook his nerves and chilled his heart . Springing forward he drew the bolt and threw the door open.Outside all was calm and quiet . The night was fine , and the stars were twinkling brightly overhead . The little front garden lay before the farmer 's eyes bounded by the fence and gate , but neither there nor on the road was any human being to be seen . With a sigh of relief , Ferrier looked to right and to left , until happening to glance straight down at his own feet he saw to his astonishment a man lying flat upon his face upon the ground , with arms and legs all asprawl.So unnerved was he at the sight that he leaned up against the wall with his hand to his throat to stifle his inclination to call out . His first thought was that the prostrate figure was that of some wounded or dying man , but as he watched it he saw it writhe along the ground and into the hall with the rapidity and noiselessness of a serpent . Once within the house the man sprang to his feet , closed the door , and revealed to the astonished farmer the fierce face and resolute expression of Jefferson Hope . `` Good God ! '' gasped John Ferrier . `` How you scared me ! Whatever made you come in like that . `` `` Give me food , '' the other said , hoarsely . `` I have had no time for bite or sup for eight-and-forty hours . '' He flung himself upon the 21 cold meat and bread which were still lying upon the table from his host 's supper , and devoured it voraciously . `` Does Lucy bear up well ? '' he asked , when he had satisfied his hunger. '' Yes . She does not know the danger , '' her father answered . `` That is well . The house is watched on every side . That is why I crawled my way up to it . They may be darned sharp , but they 're not quite sharp enough to catch a Washoe hunter . `` John Ferrier felt a different man now that he realized that he had a devoted ally . He seized the young man 's leathery hand and wrung it cordially . `` You 're a man to be proud of , '' he said . `` There are not many who would come to share our danger and our troubles . `` `` You 've hit it there , pard , '' the young hunter answered . `` I have a respect for you , but if you were alone in this business I 'd think twice before I put my head into such a hornet 's nest . It 's Lucy that brings me here , and before harm comes on her I guess there will be one less o ' the Hope family in Utah . `` `` What are we to do ? `` `` To-morrow is your last day