him full upon the side of his head . His grasp relaxed , his feet slipped , and in an instant he was a crushed and mangled corpse upon the sharp ridges beneath him . `` If I have no better fortune , '' said Alleyne , leading Sir Nigel aside . `` I pray you , my dear lord , that you will give my humble service to the Lady Maude , and say to her that I was ever her true servant and most unworthy cavalier . `` The old knight said no word , but he put a hand on either shoulder , and kissed his squire , with the tears shining in his eyes . Alleyne sprang to the rope , and sliding swiftly down , soon found himself at its extremity . From above it seemed as though rope and cliff were well-nigh touching , but now , when swinging a hundred feet down , the squire found that he could scarce reach the face of the rock with his foot , and that it was as smooth as glass , with no resting-place where a mouse could stand . Some three feet lower , however , his eye lit upon a long jagged crack which slanted downwards , and this he must reach if he would save not only his own poor life , but that of the eight-score men above him . Yet it were madness to spring for that narrow slit with nought but the wet , smooth rock to cling to . He swung for a moment , full of thought , and even as he hung there another of the hellish stones sang through his curls , and struck a chip from the face of the cliff . Up he clambered a few feet , drew up the loose end after him , unslung his belt , held on with knee and with elbow while he spliced the long , tough leathern belt to the end of the cord : then lowering himself as far as he could go , he swung backwards and forwards until his hand reached the crack , when he left the rope and clung to the face of the cliff . Another stone struck him on the side , and he heard a sound like a breaking stick , with a keen stabbing pain which shot through his chest . Yet it was no time now to think of pain or ache . There was his lord and his eight-score comrades , and they must be plucked from the jaws of death . On he clambered , with his hand shuffling down the long sloping crack , sometimes bearing all his weight upon his arms , at others finding some small shelf or tuft on which to rest his foot . Would he never pass over that fifty feet ? He dared not look down and could but grope slowly onwards , his face to the cliff , his fingers clutching , his feet scraping and feeling for a support . Every vein and crack and mottling of that face of rock remained forever stamped upon his memory . At last , however , his foot came upon a broad resting-place and he ventured to cast a glance downwards . Thank God ! he had reached the highest of those fatal pinnacles upon which his comrade had fallen . Quickly now he sprang from rock to rock until his feet were on the ground , and he had his hand stretched out for the horse 's rein , when a sling-stone struck him on the head , and he dropped senseless upon the ground.An evil blow it was for Alleyne , but a worse one still for him who struck it . The Spanish slinger , seeing the youth lie slain , and judging from his dress that he was no common man , rushed forward to plunder him , knowing well that the bowmen above him had expended their last shaft . He was still three paces , however , from his victim 's side when John upon the cliff above plucked up a huge boulder , and , poising it for an instant , dropped it with fatal aim upon the slinger beneath him . It struck upon his shoulder , and hurled him , crushed and screaming , to the ground , while Alleyne , recalled to his senses by these shrill cries in his very ear , staggered on to his feet , and gazed wildly about him . His eyes fell upon the horses , grazing upon the scanty pasture , and in an instant all had come back to him -- -his mission , his comrades , the need for haste . He was dizzy , sick , faint , but he must not die , and he must not tarry , for his life meant many lives that day . In an instant he was in his saddle and spurring down the valley . Loud rang the swift charger 's hoofs over rock and reef , while the fire flew from the stroke of iron , and the loose stones showered up behind him . But his head was whirling round , the blood was gushing from his brow , his temple , his mouth . Ever keener and sharper was the deadly pain which shot like a red-hot arrow through his side . He felt that his eye was glazing , his senses slipping from him , his grasp upon the reins relaxing . Then with one mighty effort , he called up all his strength for a single minute . Stooping down , he loosened the stirrup-straps , bound his knees tightly to his saddle-flaps , twisted his hands in the bridle , and then , putting the gallant horse 's head for the mountain path , he dashed the spurs in and fell forward fainting with his face buried in the coarse , black mane.Little could he ever remember of that wild ride . Half conscious , but ever with the one thought beating in his mind , he goaded the horse onwards , rushing swiftly down steep ravines over huge boulders , along the edges of black abysses . Dim memories he had of beetling cliffs , of a group of huts with wondering faces at the doors , of foaming , clattering water , and of a bristle of mountain beeches . Once , ere he had ridden far , he heard behind him three deep , sullen shouts , which told him that his comrades had set their faces to the foe once more . Then all was blank , until he woke to find kindly blue English eyes peering down upon him and to hear the blessed sound of his country 's speech . They were but a foraging party -- -a hundred archers and as many men-at-arms -- -but their leader was Sir Hugh Calverley , and he was not a man to bide idle when good blows were to be had not three leagues from him . A scout was sent flying with a message to the camp , and Sir Hugh , with his two hundred men , thundered off to the rescue . With them went Alleyne , still bound to his saddle , still dripping with blood , and swooning and recovering , and swooning once again . On they rode , and on , until , at last , topping a ridge , they looked down upon the fateful valley . Alas ! and alas ! for the sight that met their eyes.There , beneath them , was the blood-bathed hill , and from the highest pinnacle there flaunted the yellow and white banner with the lions and the towers of the royal house of Castile . Up the long slope rushed ranks and ranks of men exultant , shouting , with waving pennons and brandished arms . Over the whole summit were dense throngs of knights , with no enemy that could be seen to face them , save only that at one corner of the plateau an eddy and swirl amid the crowded mass seemed to show that all resistance was not yet at an end . At the sight a deep groan of rage and of despair went up from the baffled rescuers , and , spurring on their horses , they clattered down the long and winding path which led to the valley beneath.But they were too late to avenge , as they had been too late to save . Long ere they could gain the level ground , the Spaniards , seeing them riding swiftly amid the rocks , and being ignorant of their numbers , drew off from the captured hill , and , having secured their few prisoners , rode slowly in a long column , with drum-beating and cymbal-clashing , out of the valley . Their rear ranks were already passing out of sight ere the new-comers were urging their panting , foaming horses up the slope which had been the scene of that long drawn and bloody fight.And a fearsome sight it was that met their eyes ! Across the lower end lay the dense heap of men and horses where the first arrow-storm had burst . Above , the bodies of the dead and the dying -- -French , Spanish , and Aragonese -- -lay thick and thicker , until they covered the whole ground two and three deep in one dreadful tangle of slaughter . Above them lay the Englishmen in their lines , even as they had stood , and higher yet upon the plateau a wild medley of the dead of all nations , where the last deadly grapple had left them . In the further corner , under the shadow of a great rock , there crouched seven bowmen , with great John in the centre of them -- -all wounded , weary , and in sorry case , but still unconquered , with their blood-stained weapons waving and their voices ringing a welcome to their countrymen . Alleyne rode across to John , while Sir Hugh Calverley followed close behind him . `` By Saint George ! '' cried Sir Hugh , `` I have never seen signs of so stern a fight , and I am right glad that we have been in time to save you . `` `` You have saved more than us , '' said John , pointing to the banner which leaned against the rock behind him . `` You have done nobly , '' cried the old free companion , gazing with a soldier 's admiration at the huge frame and bold face of the archer . `` But why is it , my good fellow , that you sit upon this man . `` `` By the rood ! I had forgot him , '' John answered , rising and dragging from under him no less a person than the Spanish caballero , Don Diego Alvarez . `` This man , my fair lord , means to me a new house , ten cows , one bull -- -if it be but a little one -- -a grindstone , and I know not what besides ; so that I thought it well to sit upon him , lest he should take a fancy to leave me . `` `` Tell me , John , '' cried Alleyne faintly : `` where is my dear lord , Sir Nigel Loring ? `` `` He is dead , I fear . I saw them throw his body across a horse and ride away with it , but I fear the life had gone from him . `` `` Now woe worth me ! And where is Aylward ? `` `` He sprang upon a