He had himself , in reply to a question , confirmed Stamford 's opinion upon that point . Neither did he appear to have pursued any course of reading which might fit him for a degree in science or any other recognized portal which would give him an entrance into the learned world . Yet his zeal for certain studies was remarkable , and within eccentric limits his knowledge was so extraordinarily ample and minute that his observations have fairly astounded me . Surely no man would work so hard or attain such precise information unless he had some definite end in view . Desultory readers are seldom remarkable for the exactness of their learning . No man burdens his mind with small matters unless he has some very good reason for doing so.His ignorance was as remarkable as his knowledge . Of contemporary literature , philosophy and politics he appeared to know next to nothing . Upon my quoting Thomas Carlyle , he inquired in the naivest way who he might be and what he had done . My surprise reached a climax , however , when I found incidentally that he was ignorant of the Copernican Theory and of the composition of the Solar System . That any civilized human being in this nineteenth century should not be aware that the earth travelled round the sun appeared to be to me such an extraordinary fact that I could hardly realize it . `` You appear to be astonished , '' he said , smiling at my expression of surprise . `` Now that I do know it I shall do my best to forget it . `` `` To forget it ! `` `` You see , '' he explained , `` I consider that a man 's brain originally is like a little empty attic , and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose . A fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across , so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out , or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it . Now the skilful workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain-attic . He will have nothing but the tools which may help him in doing his work , but of these he has a large assortment , and all in the most perfect order . It is a mistake to think that that little room has elastic walls and can distend to any extent . Depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before . It is of the highest importance , therefore , not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones . `` `` But the Solar System ! '' I protested . `` What the deuce is it to me ? '' he interrupted impatiently ; `` you say that we go round the sun . If we went round the moon it would not make a pennyworth of difference to me or to my work . `` I was on the point of asking him what that work might be , but something in his manner showed me that the question would be an unwelcome one . I pondered over our short conversation , however , and endeavoured to draw my deductions from it . He said that he would acquire no knowledge which did not bear upon his object . Therefore all the knowledge which he possessed was such as would be useful to him . I enumerated in my own mind all the various points upon which he had shown me that he was exceptionally well-informed . I even took a pencil and jotted them down . I could not help smiling at the document when I had completed it . It ran in this way -- -SHERLOCK HOLMES -- -his limits . 1 . Knowledge of Literature. -- -Nil . 2 . Philosophy. -- -Nil . 3 . Astronomy. -- -Nil . 4 . Politics. -- -Feeble . 5 . Botany. -- -Variable . Well up in belladonna , opium , and poisons generally . Knows nothing of practical gardening . 6 . Geology. -- -Practical , but limited . Tells at a glance different soils from each other . After walks has shown me splashes upon his trousers , and told me by their colour and consistence in what part of London he had received them . 7 . Chemistry. -- -Profound . 8 . Anatomy. -- -Accurate , but unsystematic . 9 . Sensational Literature. -- -Immense . He appears to know every detail of every horror perpetrated in the century . 10 . Plays the violin well . 11 . Is an expert singlestick player , boxer , and swordsman . 12 . Has a good practical knowledge of British law.When I had got so far in my list I threw it into the fire in despair . `` If I can only find what the fellow is driving at by reconciling all these accomplishments , and discovering a calling which needs them all , '' I said to myself , `` I may as well give up the attempt at once . `` I see that I have alluded above to his powers upon the violin . These were very remarkable , but as eccentric as all his other accomplishments . That he could play pieces , and difficult pieces , I knew well , because at my request he has played me some of Mendelssohn 's Lieder , and other favourites . When left to himself , however , he would seldom produce any music or attempt any recognized air . Leaning back in his arm-chair of an evening , he would close his eyes and scrape carelessly at the fiddle which was thrown across his knee . Sometimes the chords were sonorous and melancholy . Occasionally they were fantastic and cheerful . Clearly they reflected the thoughts which possessed him , but whether the music aided those thoughts , or whether the playing was simply the result of a whim or fancy was more than I could determine . I might have rebelled against these exasperating solos had it not been that he usually terminated them by playing in quick succession a whole series of my favourite airs as a slight compensation for the trial upon my patience.During the first week or so we had no callers , and I had begun to think that my companion was as friendless a man as I was myself . Presently , however , I found that he had many acquaintances , and those in the most different classes of society . There was one little sallow rat-faced , dark-eyed fellow who was introduced to me as Mr. Lestrade , and who came three or four times in a single week . One morning a young girl called , fashionably dressed , and stayed for half an hour or more . The same afternoon brought a grey-headed , seedy visitor , looking like a Jew pedlar , who appeared to me to be much excited , and who was closely followed by a slip-shod elderly woman . On another occasion an old white-haired gentleman had an interview with my companion ; and on another a railway porter in his velveteen uniform . When any of these nondescript individuals put in an appearance , Sherlock Holmes used to beg for the use of the sitting-room , and I would retire to my bed-room . He always apologized to me for putting me to this inconvenience . `` I have to use this room as a place of business , '' he said , `` and these people are my clients . '' Again I had an opportunity of asking him a point blank question , and again my delicacy prevented me from forcing another man to confide in me . I imagined at the time that he had some strong reason for not alluding to it , but he soon dispelled the idea by coming round to the subject of his own accord.It was upon the 4th of March , as I have good reason to remember , that I rose somewhat earlier than usual , and found that Sherlock Holmes had not yet finished his breakfast . The landlady had become so accustomed to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor my coffee prepared . With the unreasonable petulance of mankind I rang the bell and gave a curt intimation that I was ready . Then I picked up a magazine from the table and attempted to while away the time with it , while my companion munched silently at his toast . One of the articles had a pencil mark at the heading , and I naturally began to run my eye through it.Its somewhat ambitious title was `` The Book of Life , '' and it attempted to show how much an observant man might learn by an accurate and systematic examination of all that came in his way . It struck me as being a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity . The reasoning was close and intense , but the deductions appeared to me to be far-fetched and exaggerated . The writer claimed by a momentary expression , a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye , to fathom a man 's inmost thoughts . Deceit , according to him , was an impossibility in the case of one trained to observation and analysis . His conclusions were as infallible as so many propositions of Euclid . So startling would his results appear to the uninitiated that until they learned the processes by which he had arrived at them they might well consider him as a necromancer . `` From a drop of water , '' said the writer , `` a logician could infer the possibility of an Atlantic or a Niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other . So all life is a great chain , the nature of which is known whenever we are shown a single link of it . Like all other arts , the Science of Deduction and Analysis is one which can only be acquired by long and patient study nor is life long enough to allow any mortal to attain the highest possible perfection in it . Before turning to those moral and mental aspects of the matter which present the greatest difficulties , let the enquirer begin by mastering more elementary problems . Let him , on meeting a fellow-mortal , learn at a glance to distinguish the history of the man , and the trade or profession to which he belongs . Puerile as such an exercise may seem , it sharpens the faculties of observation , and teaches one where to look and what to look for . By a man 's finger nails , by his coat-sleeve , by his boot , by his trouser knees , by the callosities of his forefinger and thumb , by his expression , by his shirt cuffs -- -by each of these things a man 's calling is plainly revealed . That all united should fail to enlighten the competent enquirer in any case is almost inconceivable . `` `` What ineffable twaddle ! '' I cried , slapping the magazine down on the table , `` I never read such rubbish in my life . `` `` What is it ? '' asked Sherlock Holmes . `` Why , this article , '' I said , pointing at it with my egg spoon as I sat down to my breakfast .