arm , which was girt round just under the shoulder with a silken kerchief.But the surprise of the stranger at the sight of Sir Nigel was as nothing compared with the astonishment and the delight which shone upon the face of the knight of Hampshire as he looked upon the strange face of the Frenchman . Twice he opened his mouth and twice he peered again , as though to assure himself that his eyes had not played him a trick. '' Bertrand ! '' he gasped at last . `` Bertrand du Guesclin ! `` `` By Saint Ives ! '' shouted the French soldier , with a hoarse roar of laughter , `` it is well that I should ride with my vizor down , for he that has once seen my face does not need to be told my name . It is indeed I , Sir Nigel , and here is my hand ! I give you my word that there are but three Englishmen in this world whom I would touch save with the sharp edge of the sword : the prince is one , Chandos the second , and you the third ; for I have heard much that is good of you . `` `` I am growing aged , and am somewhat spent in the wars , '' quoth Sir Nigel ; `` but I can lay by my sword now with an easy mind , for I can say that I have crossed swords with him who hath the bravest heart and the strongest arm of all this great kingdom of France . I have longed for it , I have dreamed of it , and now I can scarce bring my mind to understand that this great honor hath indeed been mine . `` `` By the Virgin of Rennes ! you have given me cause to be very certain of it , '' said Du Guesclin , with a gleam of his broad white teeth . `` And perhaps , most honored sir , it would please you to continue the debate . Perhaps you would condescend to go farther into the matter . God He knows that I am unworthy of such honor , yet I can show my four-and-sixty quarterings , and I have been present at some bickerings and scufflings during these twenty years . `` `` Your fame is very well known to me , and I shall ask my lady to enter your name upon my tablets , '' said Sir Bertrand . `` There are many who wish to advance themselves , and who bide their turn , for I refuse no man who comes on such an errand . At present it may not be , for mine arm is stiff from this small touch , and I would fain do you full honor when we cross swords again . Come in with me , and let your squires come also , that my sweet spouse , the Lady Tiphaine , may say that she hath seen so famed and gentle a knight . `` Into the chamber they went in all peace and concord , where the Lady Tiphaine sat like queen on throne for each in turn to be presented to her . Sooth to say , the stout heart of Sir Nigel , which cared little for the wrath of her lion-like spouse , was somewhat shaken by the calm , cold face of this stately dame , for twenty years of camp-life had left him more at ease in the lists than in a lady 's boudoir . He bethought him , too , as he looked at her set lips and deep-set questioning eyes , that he had heard strange tales of this same Lady Tiphaine du Guesclin . Was it not she who was said to lay hands upon the sick and raise them from their couches when the leeches had spent their last nostrums ? Had she not forecast the future , and were there not times when in the loneliness of her chamber she was heard to hold converse with some being upon whom mortal eye never rested -- -some dark familiar who passed where doors were barred and windows high ? Sir Nigel sunk his eye and marked a cross on the side of his leg as he greeted this dangerous dame , and yet ere five minutes had passed he was hers , and not he only but his two young squires as well . The mind had gone out of them , and they could but look at this woman and listen to the words which fell from her lips -- -words which thrilled through their nerves and stirred their souls like the battle-call of a bugle.Often in peaceful after-days was Alleyne to think of that scene of the wayside inn of Auvergne . The shadows of evening had fallen , and the corners of the long , low , wood-panelled room were draped in darkness . The sputtering wood fire threw out a circle of red flickering light which played over the little group of wayfarers , and showed up every line and shadow upon their faces . Sir Nigel sat with elbows upon knees , and chin upon hands , his patch still covering one eye , but his other shining like a star , while the ruddy light gleamed upon his smooth white head . Ford was seated at his left , his lips parted , his eyes staring , and a fleck of deep color on either cheek , his limbs all rigid as one who fears to move . On the other side the famous French captain leaned back in his chair , a litter of nut-shells upon his lap , his huge head half buried in a cushion , while his eyes wandered with an amused gleam from his dame to the staring , enraptured Englishmen . Then , last of all , that pale clear-cut face , that sweet clear voice , with its high thrilling talk of the deathlessness of glory , of the worthlessness of life , of the pain of ignoble joys , and of the joy which lies in all pains which lead to a noble end . Still , as the shadows deepened , she spoke of valor and virtue , of loyalty , honor , and fame , and still they sat drinking in her words while the fire burned down and the red ash turned to gray . `` By the sainted Ives ! '' cried Du Guesclin at last , `` it is time that we spoke of what we are to do this night , for I can not think that in this wayside auberge there are fit quarters for an honorable company . `` Sir Nigel gave a long sigh as he came back from the dreams of chivalry and hardihood into which this strange woman 's words had wafted him . `` I care not where I sleep , '' said he ; `` but these are indeed somewhat rude lodgings for this fair lady . `` `` What contents my lord contents me , '' quoth she . `` I perceive , Sir Nigel , that you are under vow , '' she added , glancing at his covered eye . `` It is my purpose to attempt some small deed , '' he answered . `` And the glove -- -is it your lady 's ? `` `` It is indeed my sweet wife 's . `` `` Who is doubtless proud of you . `` `` Say rather I of her , '' quoth he quickly . `` God He knows that I am not worthy to be her humble servant . It is easy , lady , for a man to ride forth in the light of day , and do his devoir when all men have eyes for him . But in a woman 's heart there is a strength and truth which asks no praise , and can but be known to him whose treasure it is . `` The Lady Tiphaine smiled across at her husband . `` You have often told me , Bertrand , that there were very gentle knights amongst the English , '' quoth she . `` Aye , aye , '' said he moodily . `` But to horse , Sir Nigel , you and yours and we shall seek the chateau of Sir Tristram de Rochefort , which is two miles on this side of Villefranche . He is Seneschal of Auvergne , and mine old war companion . `` `` Certes , he would have a welcome for you , '' quoth Sir Nigel ; `` but indeed he might look askance at one who comes without permit over the marches . `` `` By the Virgin ! when he learns that you have come to draw away these rascals he will be very blithe to look upon your face . Inn-keeper , here are ten gold pieces . What is over and above your reckoning you may take off from your charges to the next needy knight who comes this way . Come then , for it grows late and the horses are stamping in the roadway . `` The Lady Tiphaine and her spouse sprang upon their steeds without setting feet to stirrup , and away they jingled down the white moonlit highway , with Sir Nigel at the lady 's bridle-arm , and Ford a spear 's length behind them . Alleyne had lingered for an instant in the passage , and as he did so there came a wild outcry from a chamber upon the left , and out there ran Aylward and John , laughing together like two schoolboys who are bent upon a prank . At sight of Alleyne they slunk past him with somewhat of a shame-faced air , and springing upon their horses galloped after their party . The hubbub within the chamber did not cease , however , but rather increased , with yells of : `` A moi , mes amis ! A moi , camarades ! A moi , l'honorable champion de l'Eveque de Montaubon ! A la recousse de l'eglise sainte ! '' So shrill was the outcry that both the inn-keeper and Alleyne , with every varlet within hearing , rushed wildly to the scene of the uproar.It was indeed a singular scene which met their eyes . The room was a long and lofty one , stone floored and bare , with a fire at the further end upon which a great pot was boiling . A deal table ran down the centre , with a wooden wine-pitcher upon it and two horn cups . Some way from it was a smaller table with a single beaker and a broken wine-bottle . From the heavy wooden rafters which formed the roof there hung rows of hooks which held up sides of bacon , joints of smoked beef , and strings of onions for winter use . In the very centre of all these , upon the largest hook of all , there hung a fat little red-faced man with enormous whiskers , kicking madly in the air and clawing at rafters , hams , and all else that was within hand-grasp . The huge steel hook had been passed through the collar of his leather jerkin , and there he hung like a fish on a line , writhing , twisting , and screaming , but utterly unable to free himself from his extraordinary position . It was not until Alleyne and the landlord had mounted on the table that they were able to lift him down , when he sank gasping with rage into a seat , and rolled his eyes round in every