I have never known him to take so many elaborate precautions or appear so thoroughly unnerved . Who would ever think , to see his bent form and his shaking hands , that he is the same man who used some few short years ago to shoot tigers on foot among the jungles of the Terai , and would laugh at the more timid sportsmen who sought the protection of their elephant 's howdah ? `` You know that he has the Victoria Cross , which he won in the streets of Delhi , and yet here he is shivering with terror and starting at every noise , in the most peaceful corner of the world . Oh , the pity of it . West ! Remember what I have already told you -- -that it is no fanciful or imaginary peril , but one which we have every reason to suppose to be most real . It is , however , of such a nature that it can neither be averted nor can it profitably be expressed in words . If all goes well , you will see us at Branksome on the sixth . `` With our fondest love to both of you , I am ever , my dear friends , your attached '' MORDAUNT . `` This letter was a great relief to us as letting us know that the brother and sister were under no physical restraint , but our powerlessness and inability even to comprehend what the danger was which threatened those whom we had come to love better than ourselves was little short of maddening.Fifty times a day we asked ourselves and asked each other from what possible quarter this peril was to be expected , but the more we thought of it the more hopeless did any solution appear.In vain we combined our experiences and pieced together every word which had fallen from the lips of any inmate of Cloomber which might be supposed to bear directly or indirectly upon the subject.At last , weary with fruitless speculation , we were fain to try to drive the matter from our thoughts , consoling ourselves with the reflection that in a few more days all restrictions would be removed , and we should be able to learn from our friends ' own lips.Those few intervening days , however , would , we feared , be dreary , long ones . And so they would have been , had it not been for a new and most unexpected incident , which diverted our minds from our own troubles and gave them something fresh with which to occupy themselves.The third of October had broken auspiciously with a bright sun and a cloudless sky . There had in the morning been a slight breeze , and a few little white wreaths of vapour drifted here and there like the scattered feathers of some gigantic bird , but , as the day wore on , such wind as there was fell completely away , and the air became close and stagnant.The sun blazed down with a degree of heat which was remarkable so late in the season , and a shimmering haze lay upon the upland moors and concealed the Irish mountains on the other side of the Channel.The sea itself rose and fell in a long , heavy , oily roll , sweeping slowly landward , and breaking sullenly with a dull , monotonous booming upon the rock-girt shore . To the inexperienced all seemed calm and peaceful , but to those who are accustomed to read Nature 's warnings there was a dark menace in air and sky and sea.My sister and I walked out in the afternoon , sauntering slowly along the margin of the great , sandy spit which shoots out into the Irish Sea , flanking upon one side the magnificent Bay of Luce , and on the other the more obscure inlet of Kirkmaiden , on the shores of which the Branksome property is situated.It was too sultry to go far , so we soon seated ourselves upon one of the sandy hillocks , overgrown with faded grass-tufts , which extend along the coast-line , and which form Nature 's dykes against the encroachments of the ocean.Our rest was soon interrupted by the scrunching of heavy boots upon the shingle , and Jamieson , the old man-o'-war 's man whom I have already had occasion to mention , made his appearance , with the flat , circular net upon his back which he used for shrimp-catching . He came towards us upon seeing us , and said in his rough , kindly way that he hoped we would not take it amiss if he sent us up a dish of shrimps for our tea at Branksome . `` I aye make a good catch before a storm , '' he remarked . `` You think there is going to be a storm , then ? '' I asked . `` Why , even a marine could see that , '' he answered , sticking a great wedge of tobacco into his cheek . `` The moors over near Cloomber are just white wi ' gulls and kittiewakes . What d 'ye think they come ashore for except to escape having all the feathers blown out o ' them ? I mind a day like this when I was wi ' Charlie Napier off Cronstadt . It well-nigh blew us under the guns of the forts , for all our engines and propellers . `` `` Have you ever known a wreck in these parts ? '' I asked . `` Lord love ye , sir , it 's a famous place for wrecks . Why , in that very bay down there two o ' King Philip 's first-rates foundered wi ' all hands in the days o ' the Spanish war . If that sheet o ' water and the Bay o ' Luce round the corner could tell their ain tale they 'd have a gey lot to speak of . When the Jedgment Day comes round that water will be just bubbling wi ' the number o ' folks that will be coming up frae the bottom . `` `` I trust that there will be no wrecks while we are here , '' said Esther earnestly.The old man shook his grizzled head and looked distrustfully at the hazy horizon . `` If it blows from the west , '' he said , `` some o ' these sailing ships may find it no joke to be caught without sea-room in the North Channel . There 's that barque out yonder -- -I daresay her maister would be glad enough to find himsel ' safe in the Clyde . `` `` She seems to be absolutely motionless , '' I remarked , looking at the vessel in question , whose black hull and gleaming sails rose and fell slowly with the throbbing of the giant pulse beneath her . `` Perhaps , Jamieson , we are wrong , and there will be no storm after all . `` The old sailor chuckled to himself with an air of superior knowledge , and shuffled away with his shrimp-net , while my sister and I walked slowly homewards through the hot and stagnant air.I went up to my father 's study to see if the old gentleman had any instructions as to the estate , for he had become engrossed in a new work upon Oriental literature , and the practical management of the property had in consequence devolved entirely upon me.I found him seated at his square library table , which was so heaped with books and papers that nothing of him was visible from the door except a tuft of white hair . `` My dear son , '' he said to me as I entered , `` it is a great grief to me that you are not more conversant with Sanscrit . When I was your age , I could converse not only in that noble language , but also in the Tamulic , Lohitic , Gangelic , Taic , and Malaic dialects , which are all offshoots from the Turanian branch . `` `` I regret extremely , sir , '' I answered , `` that I have not inherited your wonderful talents as a polyglot . `` `` I have set myself a task , '' he explained , `` which , if it could only be continued from generation to generation in our own family until it was completed , would make the name of West immortal . This is nothing less than to publish an English translation of the Buddhist Djarmas , with a preface giving an idea of the position of Brahminism before the coming of Sakyamuni . With diligence it is possible that I might be able myself to complete part of the preface before I die . `` `` And pray , sir , '' I asked , `` how long would the whole work be when it was finished ? `` `` The abridged edition in the Imperial Library of Pekin , '' said my father , rubbing his hands together , `` consists of 325 volumes of an average weight of five pounds . Then the preface , which must embrace some account of the Rig-veda , the Sama-veda , the Yagur-veda , and the Atharva-veda , with the Brahmanas , could hardly be completed in less than ten volumes . Now , if we apportion one volume to each year , there is every prospect of the family coming to an end of its task about the date 2250 , the twelfth generation completing the work , while the thirteenth might occupy itself upon the index . `` `` And how are our descendants to live , sir , '' I asked , with a smile , `` during the progress of this great undertaking : '' '' That 's the worst of you , Jack , '' my father cried petulantly . `` There is nothing practical about you . Instead of confining your attention to the working out of my noble scheme , you begin raising all sorts of absurd objections . It is a mere matter of detail how our descendants live , so long as they stick to the Djarmas . Now , I want you to go up to the bothy of Fergus McDonald and see about the thatch , and Willie Fullerton has written to say that his milk-cow is bad . You might took in upon your way and ask after it . `` I started off upon my errands , but before doing so I took a look at the barometer upon the wall . The mercury had sunk to the phenomenal point of twenty-eight inches . Clearly the old sailor had not been wrong in his interpretation of Nature 's signs.As I returned over the moors in the evening , the wind was blowing in short , angry puffs , and the western horizon was heaped with sombre clouds which stretched their long , ragged tentacles right up to the zenith.Against their dark background one or two livid , sulphur-coloured splotches showed up malignant and menacing , while the surface of the sea had changed from the appearance of burnished quicksilver to that of ground glass . A low , moaning sound rose up from the ocean as if it knew that trouble was in store for it.Far out in the Channel I saw a single panting , eager steam vessel making its way to Belfast Lough , and the large barque which I had observed in the morning still beating about in the offing , endeavouring to pass to the northward.At nine o'clock a sharp breeze was blowing , at ten it had freshened into a