`` I 'm afraid that he wo n't come , '' said Laura McIntyre , in a disconsolate voice . `` Why not ? `` `` Oh , look at the weather ; it is something too awful . `` As she spoke a whirl of snow beat with a muffled patter against the cosy red-curtained window , while a long blast of wind shrieked and whistled through the branches of the great white-limbed elms which skirted the garden.Robert McIntyre rose from the sketch upon which he had been working , and taking one of the lamps in his hand peered out into the darkness . The long skeleton limbs of the bare trees tossed and quivered dimly amid the whirling drift . His sister sat by the fire , her fancy-work in her lap , and looked up at her brothers profile which showed against the brilliant yellow light . It was a handsome face , young and fair and clear cut , with wavy brown hair combed backwards and rippling down into that outward curve at the ends which one associates with the artistic temperament . There was refinement too in his slightly puckered eyes , his dainty gold-rimmedpince-nezglasses , and in the black velveteen coat which caught the light so richly upon its shoulder . In his mouth only there was something -- -a suspicion of coarseness , a possibility of weakness -- -which in the eyes of some , and of his sister among them , marred the grace and beauty of his features . Yet , as he was wont himself to say , when one thinks that each poor mortal is heir to a legacy of every evil trait or bodily taint of so vast a line of ancestors , lucky indeed is the man who does not find that Nature has scored up some long-owing family debt upon his features.And indeed in this case the remorseless creditor had gone so far as to exact a claim from the lady also , though in her case the extreme beauty of the upper part of the face drew the eye away from any weakness which might be found in the lower . She was darker than her brother -- -so dark that her heavily coiled hair seemed to be black until the light shone slantwise across it . The delicate , half-petulant features , the finely traced brows , and the thoughtful , humorous eyes were all perfect in their way , and yet the combination left something to be desired . There was a vague sense of a flaw somewhere , in feature or in expression , which resolved itself , when analysed , into a slight out-turning and droop of the lower lip ; small indeed , and yet pronounced enough to turn what would have been a beautiful face into a merely pretty one . Very despondent and somewhat cross she looked as she leaned back in the armchair , the tangle of bright-coloured silks and of drab holland upon her lap , her hands clasped behind her head , with her snowy forearms and little pink elbows projecting on either side . `` I know he wo n't come , '' she repeated . `` Nonsense , Laura ! Of course he 'll come . A sailor and afraid of the weather ! '' '' Ha ! '' She raised her finger , and a smile of triumph played over her face , only to die away again into a blank look of disappointment . `` It is only papa , '' she murmured.A shuffling step was heard in the hall , and a little peaky man , with his slippers very much down at the heels , came shambling into the room . Mr. McIntyre , sen. , was pale and furtive-looking , with a thin straggling red beard shot with grey , and a sunken downcast face . Ill-fortune and ill-health had both left their marks upon him . Ten years before he had been one of the largest and richest gunmakers in Birmingham , but a long run of commercial bad luck had sapped his great fortune , and had finally driven him into the Bankruptcy Court . The death of his wife on the very day of his insolvency had filled his cup of sorrow , and he had gone about since with a stunned , half-dazed expression upon his weak pallid face which spoke of a mind unhinged . So complete had been his downfall that the family would have been reduced to absolute poverty were it not for a small legacy of two-hundred a year which both the children had received from one of their uncles upon the mother 's side who had amassed a fortune in Australia . By combining their incomes , and by taking a house in the quiet country district of Tamfield , some fourteen miles from the great Midland city , they were still able to live with some approach to comfort . The change , however , was a bitter one to all -- -to Robert , who had to forego the luxuries dear to his artistic temperament , and to think of turning what had been merely an overruling hobby into a means of earning a living ; and even more to Laura , who winced before the pity of her old friends , and found the lanes and fields of Tamfield intolerably dull after the life and bustle of Edgbaston . Their discomfort was aggravated by the conduct of their father , whose life now was one long wail over his misfortunes , and who alternately sought comfort in the Prayer-book and in the decanter for the ills which had befallen him.To Laura , however , Tamfield presented one attraction , which was now about to be taken from her . Their choice of the little country hamlet as their residence had been determined by the fact of their old friend , the Reverend John Spurling , having been nominated as the vicar . Hector Spurling , the elder son , two months Laura 's senior , had been engaged to her for some years , and was , indeed , upon the point of marrying her when the sudden financial crash had disarranged their plans . A sub-lieutenant in the Navy , he was home on leave at present , and hardly an evening passed without his making his way from the Vicarage to Elmdene , where the McIntyres resided . To-day , however , a note had reached them to the effect that he had been suddenly ordered on duty , and that he must rejoin his ship at Portsmouth by the next evening . He would look in , were it but for half-an-hour , to bid them adieu . `` Why , where 's Hector ? '' asked Mr. McIntyre , blinking round from side to side . `` He 's not come , father . How could you expect him to come on such a night as this ? Why , there must be two feet of snow in the glebe field . `` `` Not come , eh ? '' croaked the old man , throwing himself down upon the sofa . `` Well , well , it only wants him and his father to throw us over , and the thing will be complete . `` `` How can you even hint at such a thing , father ? '' cried Laura indignantly . `` They have been as true as steel . What would they think if they heard you . `` `` I think , Robert , '' he said , disregarding his daughter 's protest , `` that I will have a drop , just the very smallest possible drop , of brandy . A mere thimbleful will do ; but I rather think I have caught cold during the snowstorm to-day . `` Robert went on sketching stolidly in his folding book , but Laura looked up from her work . `` I 'm afraid there is nothing in the house , father , '' she said. '' Laura ! Laura ! '' He shook his head as one more in sorrow than in anger . `` You are no longer a girl , Laura ; you are a woman , the manager of a household , Laura . We trust in you . We look entirely towards you . And yet you leave your poor brother Robert without any brandy , to say nothing of me , your father . Good heavens , Laura ! what would your mother have said ? Think of accidents , think of sudden illness , think of apoplectic fits , Laura . It is a very grave res -- -a very grave response -- -a very great risk that you run . `` `` I hardly touch the stuff , '' said Robert curtly ; `` Laura need not provide any for me . `` `` As a medicine it is invaluable , Robert . To be used , you understand , and not to be abused . That 's the whole secret of it . But I 'll step down to the Three Pigeons for half an hour . `` `` My dear father , '' cried the young man `` you surely are not going out upon such a night . If you must have brandy could I not send Sarah for some ? Please let me send Sarah ; or I would go myself , or -- - '' Pip ! came a little paper pellet from his sister 's chair on to the sketch-book in front of him ! He unrolled it and held it to the light . `` For Heaven 's sake let him go ! '' was scrawled across it . `` Well , in any case , wrap yourself up warm , '' he continued , laying bare his sudden change of front with a masculine clumsiness which horrified his sister . `` Perhaps it is not so cold as it looks . You ca n't lose your way , that is one blessing . And it is not more than a hundred yards . `` With many mumbles and grumbles at his daughter 's want of foresight , old McIntyre struggled into his great-coat and wrapped his scarf round his long thin throat . A sharp gust of cold wind made the lamps flicker as he threw open the hall-door . His two children listened to the dull fall of his footsteps as he slowly picked out the winding garden path . `` He gets worse -- -he becomes intolerable , '' said Robert at last . `` We should not have let him out ; he may make a public exhibition of himself . `` `` But it 's Hector 's last night , '' pleaded Laura . `` It would be dreadful if they met and he noticed anything . That was why I wished him to go . `` `` Then you were only just in time , '' remarked her brother , `` for I hear the gate go , and -- -yes , you see . `` As he spoke a cheery hail came from outside , with a sharp rat-tat at the window . Robert stepped out and threw open the door to admit a tall young man , whose black frieze jacket was all mottled and glistening with snow crystals . Laughing loudly he shook himself like a Newfoundland dog , and kicked the snow from his boots before entering the little lamplit room.Hector Spurling 's profession was written in every line of his face . The clean-shaven lip and chin , the little fringe of side whisker , the straight decisive mouth , and the hard weather-tanned cheeks all spoke of the