, as I gather from your original remarks , an inexplicable , or at least an unexplained , murder . Now , presuming that the source of the crime is as we suspect it to be , there might be two different motives . In the first place , I may tell you that Moriarty rules with a rod of iron over his people . His discipline is tremendous . There is only one punishment in his code . It is death . Now we might suppose that this murdered man -- -this Douglas whose approaching fate was known by one of the arch-criminal 's subordinates -- -had in some way betrayed the chief . His punishment followed , and would be known to all -- -if only to put the fear of death into them . `` `` Well , that is one suggestion , Mr . Holmes . `` `` The other is that it has been engineered by Moriarty in the ordinary course of business . Was there any robbery ? `` `` I have not heard . `` `` If so , it would , of course , be against the first hypothesis and in favour of the second . Moriarty may have been engaged to engineer it on a promise of part spoils , or he may have been paid so much down to manage it . Either is possible . But whichever it may be , or if it is some third combination , it is down at Birlstone that we must seek the solution . I know our man too well to suppose that he has left anything up here which may lead us to him . `` `` Then to Birlstone we must go ! '' cried MacDonald , jumping from his chair . `` My word ! it 's later than I thought . I can give you , gentlemen , five minutes for preparation , and that is all . `` `` And ample for us both , '' said Holmes , as he sprang up and hastened to change from his dressing gown to his coat . `` While we are on our way , Mr. Mac , I will ask you to be good enough to tell me all about it . `` `` All about it '' proved to be disappointingly little , and yet there was enough to assure us that the case before us might well be worthy of the expert 's closest attention . He brightened and rubbed his thin hands together as he listened to the meagre but remarkable details . A long series of sterile weeks lay behind us , and here at last there was a fitting object for those remarkable powers which , like all special gifts , become irksome to their owner when they are not in use . That razor brain blunted and rusted with inaction.Sherlock Holmes 's eyes glistened , his pale cheeks took a warmer hue , and his whole eager face shone with an inward light when the call for work reached him . Leaning forward in the cab , he listened intently to MacDonald 's short sketch of the problem which awaited us in Sussex . The inspector was himself dependent , as he explained to us , upon a scribbled account forwarded to him by the milk train in the early hours of the morning . White Mason , the local officer , was a personal friend , and hence MacDonald had been notified much more promptly than is usual at Scotland Yard when provincials need their assistance . It is a very cold scent upon which the Metropolitan expert is generally asked to run . `` DEAR INSPECTOR MACDONALD [ said the letter which he read to us ] : '' Official requisition for your services is in separate envelope . This is for your private eye . Wire me what train in the morning you can get for Birlstone , and I will meet it -- -or have it met if I am too occupied . This case is a snorter . Do n't waste a moment in getting started . If you can bring Mr. Holmes , please do so ; for he will find something after his own heart . We would think the whole had been fixed up for theatrical effect if there was n't a dead man in the middle of it . My word ! it IS a snorter . `` `` Your friend seems to be no fool , '' remarked Holmes . `` No , sir , White Mason is a very live man , if I am any judge . `` `` Well , have you anything more ? `` `` Only that he will give us every detail when we meet . `` `` Then how did you get at Mr. Douglas and the fact that he had been horribly murdered ? `` `` That was in the inclosed official report . It did n't say 'horrible ' : that 's not a recognized official term . It gave the name John Douglas . It mentioned that his injuries had been in the head , from the discharge of a shotgun . It also mentioned the hour of the alarm , which was close on to midnight last night . It added that the case was undoubtedly one of murder , but that no arrest had been made , and that the case was one which presented some very perplexing and extraordinary features . That 's absolutely all we have at present , Mr . Holmes . `` `` Then , with your permission , we will leave it at that , Mr. Mac . The temptation to form premature theories upon insufficient data is the bane of our profession . I can see only two things for certain at present -- -a great brain in London , and a dead man in Sussex . It 's the chain between that we are going to trace . `` Now for a moment I will ask leave to remove my own insignificant personality and to describe events which occurred before we arrived upon the scene by the light of knowledge which came to us afterwards . Only in this way can I make the reader appreciate the people concerned and the strange setting in which their fate was cast.The village of Birlstone is a small and very ancient cluster of half-timbered cottages on the northern border of the county of Sussex . For centuries it had remained unchanged ; but within the last few years its picturesque appearance and situation have attracted a number of well-to-do residents , whose villas peep out from the woods around . These woods are locally supposed to be the extreme fringe of the great Weald forest , which thins away until it reaches the northern chalk downs . A number of small shops have come into being to meet the wants of the increased population ; so there seems some prospect that Birlstone may soon grow from an ancient village into a modern town . It is the centre for a considerable area of country , since Tunbridge Wells , the nearest place of importance , is ten or twelve miles to the eastward , over the borders of Kent.About half a mile from the town , standing in an old park famous for its huge beech trees , is the ancient Manor House of Birlstone . Part of this venerable building dates back to the time of the first crusade , when Hugo de Capus built a fortalice in the centre of the estate , which had been granted to him by the Red King . This was destroyed by fire in 1543 , and some of its smoke-blackened corner stones were used when , in Jacobean times , a brick country house rose upon the ruins of the feudal castle.The Manor House , with its many gables and its small diamond-paned windows , was still much as the builder had left it in the early seventeenth century . Of the double moats which had guarded its more warlike predecessor , the outer had been allowed to dry up , and served the humble function of a kitchen garden . The inner one was still there , and lay forty feet in breadth , though now only a few feet in depth , round the whole house . A small stream fed it and continued beyond it , so that the sheet of water , though turbid , was never ditchlike or unhealthy . The ground floor windows were within a foot of the surface of the water.The only approach to the house was over a drawbridge , the chains and windlass of which had long been rusted and broken . The latest tenants of the Manor House had , however , with characteristic energy , set this right , and the drawbridge was not only capable of being raised , but actually was raised every evening and lowered every morning . By thus renewing the custom of the old feudal days the Manor House was converted into an island during the night -- -a fact which had a very direct bearing upon the mystery which was soon to engage the attention of all England.The house had been untenanted for some years and was threatening to moulder into a picturesque decay when the Douglases took possession of it . This family consisted of only two individuals -- -John Douglas and his wife . Douglas was a remarkable man , both in character and in person . In age he may have been about fifty , with a strong-jawed , rugged face , a grizzling moustache , peculiarly keen gray eyes , and a wiry , vigorous figure which had lost nothing of the strength and activity of youth . He was cheery and genial to all , but somewhat offhand in his manners , giving the impression that he had seen life in social strata on some far lower horizon than the county society of Sussex.Yet , though looked at with some curiosity and reserve by his more cultivated neighbours , he soon acquired a great popularity among the villagers , subscribing handsomely to all local objects , and attending their smoking concerts and other functions , where , having a remarkably rich tenor voice , he was always ready to oblige with an excellent song . He appeared to have plenty of money , which was said to have been gained in the California gold fields , and it was clear from his own talk and that of his wife that he had spent a part of his life in America.The good impression which had been produced by his generosity and by his democratic manners was increased by a reputation gained for utter indifference to danger . Though a wretched rider , he turned out at every meet , and took the most amazing falls in his determination to hold his own with the best . When the vicarage caught fire he distinguished himself also by the fearlessness with which he reentered the building to save property , after the local fire brigade had given it up as impossible . Thus it came about that John Douglas of the Manor House had within five years won himself quite a reputation in Birlstone.His wife , too , was popular with those who had made her acquaintance ; though , after the English fashion , the callers upon a stranger who settled in the county without introductions were few and far between . This mattered the less to her , as she was retiring by disposition , and very much absorbed , to all appearance , in her husband and her domestic duties . It was known that she was an English lady who had met Mr.