baldness , he gave the impression of youth . In point of fact he had just turned his thirtieth year . `` Your servant , Miss Morstan , '' he kept repeating , in a thin , high voice . `` Your servant , gentlemen . Pray step into my little sanctum . A small place , miss , but furnished to my own liking . An oasis of art in the howling desert of South London . `` We were all astonished by the appearance of the apartment into which he invited us . In that sorry house it looked as out of place as a diamond of the first water in a setting of brass . The richest and glossiest of curtains and tapestries draped the walls , looped back here and there to expose some richly-mounted painting or Oriental vase . The carpet was of amber-and-black , so soft and so thick that the foot sank pleasantly into it , as into a bed of moss . Two great tiger-skins thrown athwart it increased the suggestion of Eastern luxury , as did a huge hookah which stood upon a mat in the corner . A lamp in the fashion of a silver dove was hung from an almost invisible golden wire in the centre of the room . As it burned it filled the air with a subtle and aromatic odor. '' Mr . Thaddeus Sholto , '' said the little man , still jerking and smiling . `` That is my name . You are Miss Morstan , of course . And these gentlemen -- - '' '' This is Mr. Sherlock Holmes , and this is Dr . Watson . `` `` A doctor , eh ? '' cried he , much excited . `` Have you your stethoscope ? Might I ask you -- -would you have the kindness ? I have grave doubts as to my mitral valve , if you would be so very good . The aortic I may rely upon , but I should value your opinion upon the mitral . `` I listened to his heart , as requested , but was unable to find anything amiss , save indeed that he was in an ecstasy of fear , for he shivered from head to foot . `` It appears to be normal , '' I said . `` You have no cause for uneasiness . `` `` You will excuse my anxiety , Miss Morstan , '' he remarked , airily . `` I am a great sufferer , and I have long had suspicions as to that valve . I am delighted to hear that they are unwarranted . Had your father , Miss Morstan , refrained from throwing a strain upon his heart , he might have been alive now . `` I could have struck the man across the face , so hot was I at this callous and off-hand reference to so delicate a matter . Miss Morstan sat down , and her face grew white to the lips . `` I knew in my heart that he was dead , '' said she . `` I can give you every information , '' said he , `` and , what is more , I can do you justice ; and I will , too , whatever Brother Bartholomew may say . I am so glad to have your friends here , not only as an escort to you , but also as witnesses to what I am about to do and say . The three of us can show a bold front to Brother Bartholomew . But let us have no outsiders , -- -no police or officials . We can settle everything satisfactorily among ourselves , without any interference . Nothing would annoy Brother Bartholomew more than any publicity . '' He sat down upon a low settee and blinked at us inquiringly with his weak , watery blue eyes . `` For my part , '' said Holmes , `` whatever you may choose to say will go no further . `` I nodded to show my agreement . `` That is well ! That is well ! '' said he . `` May I offer you a glass of Chianti , Miss Morstan ? Or of Tokay ? I keep no other wines . Shall I open a flask ? No ? Well , then , I trust that you have no objection to tobacco-smoke , to the mild balsamic odor of the Eastern tobacco . I am a little nervous , and I find my hookah an invaluable sedative . '' He applied a taper to the great bowl , and the smoke bubbled merrily through the rose-water . We sat all three in a semicircle , with our heads advanced , and our chins upon our hands , while the strange , jerky little fellow , with his high , shining head , puffed uneasily in the centre . `` When I first determined to make this communication to you , '' said he , `` I might have given you my address , but I feared that you might disregard my request and bring unpleasant people with you . I took the liberty , therefore , of making an appointment in such a way that my man Williams might be able to see you first . I have complete confidence in his discretion , and he had orders , if he were dissatisfied , to proceed no further in the matter . You will excuse these precautions , but I am a man of somewhat retiring , and I might even say refined , tastes , and there is nothing more unaesthetic than a policeman . I have a natural shrinking from all forms of rough materialism . I seldom come in contact with the rough crowd . I live , as you see , with some little atmosphere of elegance around me . I may call myself a patron of the arts . It is my weakness . The landscape is a genuine Corot , and , though a connoisseur might perhaps throw a doubt upon that Salvator Rosa , there can not be the least question about the Bouguereau . I am partial to the modern French school . `` `` You will excuse me , Mr. Sholto , '' said Miss Morstan , `` but I am here at your request to learn something which you desire to tell me . It is very late , and I should desire the interview to be as short as possible . `` `` At the best it must take some time , '' he answered ; `` for we shall certainly have to go to Norwood and see Brother Bartholomew . We shall all go and try if we can get the better of Brother Bartholomew . He is very angry with me for taking the course which has seemed right to me . I had quite high words with him last night . You can not imagine what a terrible fellow he is when he is angry . `` `` If we are to go to Norwood it would perhaps be as well to start at once , '' I ventured to remark.He laughed until his ears were quite red . `` That would hardly do , '' he cried . `` I do n't know what he would say if I brought you in that sudden way . No , I must prepare you by showing you how we all stand to each other . In the first place , I must tell you that there are several points in the story of which I am myself ignorant . I can only lay the facts before you as far as I know them myself . `` My father was , as you may have guessed , Major John Sholto , once of the Indian army . He retired some eleven years ago , and came to live at Pondicherry Lodge in Upper Norwood . He had prospered in India , and brought back with him a considerable sum of money , a large collection of valuable curiosities , and a staff of native servants . With these advantages he bought himself a house , and lived in great luxury . My twin-brother Bartholomew and I were the only children . `` I very well remember the sensation which was caused by the disappearance of Captain Morstan . We read the details in the papers , and , knowing that he had been a friend of our father 's , we discussed the case freely in his presence . He used to join in our speculations as to what could have happened . Never for an instant did we suspect that he had the whole secret hidden in his own breast , -- -that of all men he alone knew the fate of Arthur Morstan . `` We did know , however , that some mystery -- -some positive danger -- -overhung our father . He was very fearful of going out alone , and he always employed two prize-fighters to act as porters at Pondicherry Lodge . Williams , who drove you to-night , was one of them . He was once light-weight champion of England . Our father would never tell us what it was he feared , but he had a most marked aversion to men with wooden legs . On one occasion he actually fired his revolver at a wooden-legged man , who proved to be a harmless tradesman canvassing for orders . We had to pay a large sum to hush the matter up . My brother and I used to think this a mere whim of my father 's , but events have since led us to change our opinion . `` Early in 1882 my father received a letter from India which was a great shock to him . He nearly fainted at the breakfast-table when he opened it , and from that day he sickened to his death . What was in the letter we could never discover , but I could see as he held it that it was short and written in a scrawling hand . He had suffered for years from an enlarged spleen , but he now became rapidly worse , and towards the end of April we were informed that he was beyond all hope , and that he wished to make a last communication to us . `` When we entered his room he was propped up with pillows and breathing heavily . He besought us to lock the door and to come upon either side of the bed . Then , grasping our hands , he made a remarkable statement to us , in a voice which was broken as much by emotion as by pain . I shall try and give it to you in his own very words . `` 'I have only one thing , ' he said , 'which weighs upon my mind at this supreme moment . It is my treatment of poor Morstan 's orphan . The cursed greed which has been my besetting sin through life has withheld from her the treasure , half at least of which should have been hers . And yet I have made no use of it myself , -- -so blind and foolish a thing is avarice . The mere feeling of possession has been so dear to me that I could not bear to share it with another . See that chaplet dipped with pearls beside the quinine-bottle . Even that I could not bear to part with , although I had got it out with the design of sending it to her . You , my sons , will give her a fair share of