. Not much to make a story of , but it was intheresting to see . I 'd have bet five to three on the chief . `` `` Bad discipline , very bad , '' Baumser remarked . `` To break the ranks and run mit knives would make my old Unter-offizier Kritzer very mad indeed . '' The German had served his time in the Prussian Army , and was still mindful of his training . `` Your stiff-backed Pickelhaubes would have had a poor chance in thepasses , '' answered the major . `` It was ivery man for himself there.You might lie , or stand , or do what you liked as long as you did n't run.Discipline goes to pieces in a war of that sort . `` `` Dat is what you call gorilla warfare , '' said Von Baumser , with a proud consciousness of having mastered an English idiom . `` For all dat , discipline is a very fine thing -- -very good indeed . I vell remember in the great krieg -- -the war with Austria -- -we had made a mine and were about to fire it . A sentry had been placed just over this , and after the match was lit it was forgotten to withdraw the man . He knew well that the powder beneath him would presently him into the air lift , but since he had not been dismissed in right form he remained until the ausbruch had exploded . He was never seen no more , and , indeed , dat he had ever been dere might well have been forgotten , had it not been dat his nadelgewehr was dere found . Dat was a proper soldier , I think , to be placed in command had he lived . `` `` To be placed in a lunatic asylum if he lived , '' said the Irishman testily . `` Hullo , what 's this ? `` The `` this '' was the appearance of the boarding-house slavey with a very neat pink envelope upon a tray , addressed , in the most elegant of female hands , to `` Major Tobias Clutterbuck , late of Her Majesty 's Hundred and Nineteenth. '' '' Ah ! '' cried Von Baumser , laughing in his red beard , `` it is from a woman . You are what the English call a sly hog , a very sly hog -- -or , I should say , dog , though it is much the same . `` `` It 's for you as well as for me . See here . 'Mrs . Lavinia Scully presints her compliments to Major Tobias Clutterbuck and to his friend , Mr. Sigismund von Baumser , and trusts that they may be able to favour her with their company on Tuesday evening at eight , to meet a few frinds . ' It 's a dance , '' said the major . `` That accounts for the harp and the tables and binches and wine cases I saw going in this morning . `` `` Will you go ? `` `` Yes , of course I will , and so shall you . We 'd better answer it . `` So in due course an acceptance was sent across to Mrs. Scully 's hospitable invitation.Never was there such a brushing and scrubbing in the bedroom of a couple of quiet bachelors as occurred some two evenings afterwards in the top story of Mrs. Robins ' establishment . The major 's suit had been pursued unremittingly since his first daring advance upon the widow , but under many difficulties and discouragements . In the occasional chance interviews which he had with his attractive neighbour he became more and more enamoured , but he had no opportunity of ascertaining whether the feeling was mutual . This invitation appeared to promise him the very chance which he desired , and many were the stern resolutions which he formed as he stood in front of his toilet-table and arranged his tie and his shirt front to his satisfaction . Von Baumser , who was arrayed in a dress coat of antiquated shape , and very shiny about the joints , sat on the side of the bed , eyeing his companion 's irreproachable get-up with envy and admiration . `` It fits you beautiful , '' he said , alluding to the coat . `` It came from Poole 's , '' answered the major carelessly . `` As for me , '' said Von Baumser , `` I have never used mine in England at all . Truly , as you know , I hate all dances and dinners . I come with you , however , very willingly , for I would not for nothing in the world give offence to the liebchen of my comrade . Since I go , I shall go as a gentleman should . '' He looked down as he spoke with much satisfaction at his withered suit of black . `` But , me good fellow , '' cried the major , who had now completed his toilet , `` you 've got your tie under your lift ear . It looks very quaint and ornamintal there , but still it 's not quite the place for it . You look as if you were ticketed for sale . `` `` They vo n't see it unless I puts it out sidevays from under my beard , '' the German said apologetically . `` However , if you think it should be hidden , it shall be so . How are my stud-buttons ? You have them of gold , I see , but mine are of mother-of-oysters . `` `` Mother-of-pearl , '' said the major , laughing . `` They will do very well . There 's the divil of a lot of cabs at their door , '' he continued , peering round the corner of the blind . `` The rooms are all lighted up , and I can hear them tuning the instruments . Maybe we 'd better go across . `` `` Vorvarts , then ! '' said Von Baumser resolutely ; and the two set off , the major with a fixed determination that he should know his fate before the evening was over.Never in the whole history of Morrison 's boarding establishment had such festive preparations been known . The landlady herself had entered heart and soul into the business , and as all the boarders had received invitations for themselves and their friends , they co-operated in every possible manner to make the evening a success . The large drawing-room had been cleared and the floor waxed . This process left it in a very glassy and orthodox condition , as the cook discovered when , on bustling in , the back of her cranium came in violent contact with the boards , while her body described a half-circle with a velocity which completely eclipsed any subsequent feats of agility shown by the dancers in the evening . The saloon had been very tastefully laid out as a supper-room , and numerous other little chambers were thrown open and brightened up to serve as lounging places for those who were fatigued . In the parlour there were two card-tables , and every other convenience for any who preferred sedentary amusements . Altogether both Mrs. Morrison and the boarders , in solemn conclave assembled , agreed that the thing looked very promising , and that it would be a credit to the establishment.The guests were as varied as the wines , though hardly as select . Mrs. Scully 's exuberant hospitality included , as already intimated , not only her own friends , but those of her fellow-boarders , so that from an early hour the rooms began to fill , and by nine o'clock there was hardly space for the dancers . Hansoms and growlers rattled up in a continuous stream and discharged their burdens . There was a carpet down from the kerb to the head of the lodging-house steps , `` like r'yalty , '' as the cook expressed it , and the greengrocer 's man in the hall looked so pompous and inflated in his gorgeous attire that his own cabbages would hardly have recognized him . His main defect as a footman was that he was somewhat hard of hearing , and had a marvellous faculty of misinterpreting whatever was said to him , which occasionally led to remarkable results . Thus , when he announced the sporting Captain Livingstone Tuck under the title of Captain Lives-on-his luck , it was felt that he was rather too near the truth to be pleasant . Indeed , the company had hardly recovered from the confusion produced by this small incident when the two Bohemians made their appearance.Mrs . Scully , who was tastefully arrayed in black satin and lace , stood near the door of the drawing-room , and looked very charming and captivating as she fulfilled her duties as hostess . So thought the major as he approached her and shook her hand , with some well turned compliment upon his lips . `` Let me inthroduce me friend , Herr von Baumser , '' he added.Mrs . Scully smiled upon the German in a way that won his Teutonic heart . `` You will find programmes over there , '' she explained . `` I think the first is a round dance . No , thank you , major ; I shall stand out , or there will be no one to receive the people . '' She hurried away to greet a party of new arrivals , while the major and Baumser wandered off in search of partners.There was no want of spirit or of variety in the dancing at Morrison 's . From Mr. Snodder , the exciseman , who danced the original old-fashioned trois-temps , to young Bucklebury , of the Bank , who stationed himself immediately underneath the central chandelier , and spun rapidly round with his partner upon his own axis , like a couple of beetles impaled upon a single pin , every possible variation of the art of waltzing was to be observed . There was Mr. Smith , of the Medical College , rotating round with Miss Clara Timms , their faces wearing that pained and anxious expression which the British countenance naturally assumes when dancing , giving the impression that the legs have suddenly burst forth in a festive mood , and have dragged the rest of the body into it very much against its will . There was the major too , who had succeeded in obtaining Mrs. Scully as a partner , and was dancing as old soldiers can dance , threading his way through the crowded room with the ease begotten by the experience of a lifetime . Meanwhile Von Baumser , at the other end , was floundering about with a broad smile upon his face and an elderly lady tucked under his right arm , while he held her disengaged hand straight out at right angles , as if she had been a banjo . In short , the fun was fast and furious , and waltz followed polka and mazurka followed waltz with a rapidity which weeded out the weaker vessels among the dancers and tested the stamina of the musicians.Then there was the card-room , whither the Widow Scully and the major and many others of the elders repaired when they found the pace too fast for them . Very snug and comfortable it was , with its square tables , each with a fringe of chairs , and the clean shining cards spread out over their green baize surfaces . The major and