all the better for last night 's festivity . But I can not understand how it is that I did not meet Charles Sadler when I so fully intended to do so . Is it possible -- -- -- My God , it is only too probable ! Has she been leading me some devil 's dance again ? I will go down to Sadler and ask him.Mid-day . The thing has come to a crisis . My life is not worth living . But , if I am to die , then she shall come also . I will not leave her behind , to drive some other man mad as she has me . No , I have come to the limit of my endurance . She has made me as desperate and dangerous a man as walks the earth . God knows I have never had the heart to hurt a fly , and yet , if I had my hands now upon that woman , she should never leave this room alive . I shall see her this very day , and she shall learn what she has to expect from me.I went to Sadler and found him , to my surprise , in bed . As I entered he sat up and turned a face toward me which sickened me as I looked at it . `` Why , Sadler , what has happened ? '' I cried , but my heart turned cold as I said it . `` Gilroy , '' he answered , mumbling with his swollen lips , `` I have for some weeks been under the impression that you are a madman . Now I know it , and that you are a dangerous one as well . If it were not that I am unwilling to make a scandal in the college , you would now be in the hands of the police . `` `` Do you mean -- -- -- '' I cried . `` I mean that as I opened the door last night you rushed out upon me , struck me with both your fists in the face , knocked me down , kicked me furiously in the side , and left me lying almost unconscious in the street . Look at your own hand bearing witness against you . `` Yes , there it was , puffed up , with sponge-like knuckles , as after some terrific blow . What could I do ? Though he put me down as a madman , I must tell him all . I sat by his bed and went over all my troubles from the beginning . I poured them out with quivering hands and burning words which might have carried conviction to the most sceptical . `` She hates you and she hates me ! '' I cried . `` She revenged herself last night on both of us at once . She saw me leave the ball , and she must have seen you also . She knew how long it would take you to reach home . Then she had but to use her wicked will . Ah , your bruised face is a small thing beside my bruised soul ! `` He was struck by my story . That was evident . `` Yes , yes , she watched me out of the room , '' he muttered . `` She is capable of it . But is it possible that she has really reduced you to this ? What do you intend to do ? `` `` To stop it ! '' I cried . `` I am perfectly desperate ; I shall give her fair warning to-day , and the next time will be the last . `` `` Do nothing rash , '' said he. '' Rash ! '' I cried . `` The only rash thing is that I should postpone it another hour . '' With that I rushed to my room , and here I am on the eve of what may be the great crisis of my life . I shall start at once . I have gained one thing to-day , for I have made one man , at least , realize the truth of this monstrous experience of mine . And , if the worst should happen , this diary remains as a proof of the goad that has driven me.Evening . When I came to Wilson 's , I was shown up , and found that he was sitting with Miss Penclosa . For half an hour I had to endure his fussy talk about his recent research into the exact nature of the spiritualistic rap , while the creature and I sat in silence looking across the room at each other . I read a sinister amusement in her eyes , and she must have seen hatred and menace in mine . I had almost despaired of having speech with her when he was called from the room , and we were left for a few moments together . `` Well , Professor Gilroy -- -or is it Mr . Gilroy ? '' said she , with that bitter smile of hers . `` How is your friend Mr. Charles Sadler after the ball ? `` `` You fiend ! '' I cried . `` You have come to the end of your tricks now . I will have no more of them . Listen to what I say . '' I strode across and shook her roughly by the shoulder `` As sure as there is a God in heaven , I swear that if you try another of your deviltries upon me I will have your life for it . Come what may , I will have your life . I have come to the end of what a man can endure . `` `` Accounts are not quite settled between us , '' said she , with a passion that equalled my own . `` I can love , and I can hate . You had your choice . You chose to spurn the first ; now you must test the other . It will take a little more to break your spirit , I see , but broken it shall be . Miss Marden comes back to-morrow , as I understand . `` `` What has that to do with you ? '' I cried . `` It is a pollution that you should dare even to think of her . If I thought that you would harm her -- -- -- '' She was frightened , I could see , though she tried to brazen it out . She read the black thought in my mind , and cowered away from me . `` She is fortunate in having such a champion , '' said she . `` He actually dares to threaten a lonely woman . I must really congratulate Miss Marden upon her protector . `` The words were bitter , but the voice and manner were more acid still . `` There is no use talking , '' said I . `` I only came here to tell you , -- -and to tell you most solemnly , -- -that your next outrage upon me will be your last . '' With that , as I heard Wilson 's step upon the stair , I walked from the room . Ay , she may look venomous and deadly , but , for all that , she is beginning to see now that she has as much to fear from me as I can have from her . Murder ! It has an ugly sound . But you do n't talk of murdering a snake or of murdering a tiger . Let her have a care now.May 5 . I met Agatha and her mother at the station at eleven o'clock . She is looking so bright , so happy , so beautiful . And she was so overjoyed to see me . What have I done to deserve such love ? I went back home with them , and we lunched together . All the troubles seem in a moment to have been shredded back from my life . She tells me that I am looking pale and worried and ill . The dear child puts it down to my loneliness and the perfunctory attentions of a housekeeper . I pray that she may never know the truth ! May the shadow , if shadow there must be , lie ever black across my life and leave hers in the sunshine . I have just come back from them , feeling a new man . With her by my side I think that I could show a bold face to any thing which life might send.5 P. M. Now , let me try to be accurate . Let me try to say exactly how it occurred . It is fresh in my mind , and I can set it down correctly , though it is not likely that the time will ever come when I shall forget the doings of to-day.I had returned from the Mardens ' after lunch , and was cutting some microscopic sections in my freezing microtome , when in an instant I lost consciousness in the sudden hateful fashion which has become only too familiar to me of late.When my senses came back to me I was sitting in a small chamber , very different from the one in which I had been working . It was cosey and bright , with chintz-covered settees , colored hangings , and a thousand pretty little trifles upon the wall . A small ornamental clock ticked in front of me , and the hands pointed to half-past three . It was all quite familiar to me , and yet I stared about for a moment in a half-dazed way until my eyes fell upon a cabinet photograph of myself upon the top of the piano . On the other side stood one of Mrs. Marden . Then , of course , I remembered where I was . It was Agatha 's boudoir.But how came I there , and what did I want ? A horrible sinking came to my heart . Had I been sent here on some devilish errand ? Had that errand already been done ? Surely it must ; otherwise , why should I be allowed to come back to consciousness ? Oh , the agony of that moment ! What had I done ? I sprang to my feet in my despair , and as I did so a small glass bottle fell from my knees on to the carpet.It was unbroken , and I picked it up . Outside was written `` Sulphuric Acid . Fort . '' When I drew the round glass stopper , a thick fume rose slowly up , and a pungent , choking smell pervaded the room . I recognized it as one which I kept for chemical testing in my chambers . But why had I brought a bottle of vitriol into Agatha 's chamber ? Was it not this thick , reeking liquid with which jealous women had been known to mar the beauty of their rivals ? My heart stood still as I held the bottle to the light . Thank God , it was full ! No mischief had been done as yet . But had Agatha come in a minute sooner , was it not certain that the hellish parasite within me would have dashed the stuff into her -- -- -- Ah , it will not bear to be thought of ! But it must have been for that . Why else should I have brought it ? At the thought of what I might have done