days ' steaming we reached an Indian village , where the Professor insisted that we should land , and that the Esmeralda should be sent back to Manaos . We should soon come upon rapids , he explained , which would make its further use impossible . He added privately that we were now approaching the door of the unknown country , and that the fewer whom we took into our confidence the better it would be . To this end also he made each of us give our word of honor that we would publish or say nothing which would give any exact clue as to the whereabouts of our travels , while the servants were all solemnly sworn to the same effect . It is for this reason that I am compelled to be vague in my narrative , and I would warn my readers that in any map or diagram which I may give the relation of places to each other may be correct , but the points of the compass are carefully confused , so that in no way can it be taken as an actual guide to the country . Professor Challenger 's reasons for secrecy may be valid or not , but we had no choice but to adopt them , for he was prepared to abandon the whole expedition rather than modify the conditions upon which he would guide us.It was August 2nd when we snapped our last link with the outer world by bidding farewell to the Esmeralda . Since then four days have passed , during which we have engaged two large canoes from the Indians , made of so light a material ( skins over a bamboo framework ) that we should be able to carry them round any obstacle . These we have loaded with all our effects , and have engaged two additional Indians to help us in the navigation . I understand that they are the very two -- -Ataca and Ipetu by name -- -who accompanied Professor Challenger upon his previous journey . They appeared to be terrified at the prospect of repeating it , but the chief has patriarchal powers in these countries , and if the bargain is good in his eyes the clansman has little choice in the matter.So to-morrow we disappear into the unknown . This account I am transmitting down the river by canoe , and it may be our last word to those who are interested in our fate . I have , according to our arrangement , addressed it to you , my dear Mr. McArdle , and I leave it to your discretion to delete , alter , or do what you like with it . From the assurance of Professor Challenger 's manner -- -and in spite of the continued scepticism of Professor Summerlee -- -I have no doubt that our leader will make good his statement , and that we are really on the eve of some most remarkable experiences.Our friends at home may well rejoice with us , for we are at our goal , and up to a point , at least , we have shown that the statement of Professor Challenger can be verified . We have not , it is true , ascended the plateau , but it lies before us , and even Professor Summerlee is in a more chastened mood . Not that he will for an instant admit that his rival could be right , but he is less persistent in his incessant objections , and has sunk for the most part into an observant silence . I must hark back , however , and continue my narrative from where I dropped it . We are sending home one of our local Indians who is injured , and I am committing this letter to his charge , with considerable doubts in my mind as to whether it will ever come to hand.When I wrote last we were about to leave the Indian village where we had been deposited by the Esmeralda . I have to begin my report by bad news , for the first serious personal trouble ( I pass over the incessant bickerings between the Professors ) occurred this evening , and might have had a tragic ending . I have spoken of our English-speaking half-breed , Gomez -- -a fine worker and a willing fellow , but afflicted , I fancy , with the vice of curiosity , which is common enough among such men . On the last evening he seems to have hid himself near the hut in which we were discussing our plans , and , being observed by our huge negro Zambo , who is as faithful as a dog and has the hatred which all his race bear to the half-breeds , he was dragged out and carried into our presence . Gomez whipped out his knife , however , and but for the huge strength of his captor , which enabled him to disarm him with one hand , he would certainly have stabbed him . The matter has ended in reprimands , the opponents have been compelled to shake hands , and there is every hope that all will be well . As to the feuds of the two learned men , they are continuous and bitter . It must be admitted that Challenger is provocative in the last degree , but Summerlee has an acid tongue , which makes matters worse . Last night Challenger said that he never cared to walk on the Thames Embankment and look up the river , as it was always sad to see one 's own eventual goal . He is convinced , of course , that he is destined for Westminster Abbey . Summerlee rejoined , however , with a sour smile , by saying that he understood that Millbank Prison had been pulled down . Challenger 's conceit is too colossal to allow him to be really annoyed . He only smiled in his beard and repeated `` Really ! Really ! '' in the pitying tone one would use to a child . Indeed , they are children both -- -the one wizened and cantankerous , the other formidable and overbearing , yet each with a brain which has put him in the front rank of his scientific age . Brain , character , soul -- -only as one sees more of life does one understand how distinct is each.The very next day we did actually make our start upon this remarkable expedition . We found that all our possessions fitted very easily into the two canoes , and we divided our personnel , six in each , taking the obvious precaution in the interests of peace of putting one Professor into each canoe . Personally , I was with Challenger , who was in a beatific humor , moving about as one in a silent ecstasy and beaming benevolence from every feature . I have had some experience of him in other moods , however , and shall be the less surprised when the thunderstorms suddenly come up amidst the sunshine . If it is impossible to be at your ease , it is equally impossible to be dull in his company , for one is always in a state of half-tremulous doubt as to what sudden turn his formidable temper may take.For two days we made our way up a good-sized river some hundreds of yards broad , and dark in color , but transparent , so that one could usually see the bottom . The affluents of the Amazon are , half of them , of this nature , while the other half are whitish and opaque , the difference depending upon the class of country through which they have flowed . The dark indicate vegetable decay , while the others point to clayey soil . Twice we came across rapids , and in each case made a portage of half a mile or so to avoid them . The woods on either side were primeval , which are more easily penetrated than woods of the second growth , and we had no great difficulty in carrying our canoes through them . How shall I ever forget the solemn mystery of it ? The height of the trees and the thickness of the boles exceeded anything which I in my town-bred life could have imagined , shooting upwards in magnificent columns until , at an enormous distance above our heads , we could dimly discern the spot where they threw out their side-branches into Gothic upward curves which coalesced to form one great matted roof of verdure , through which only an occasional golden ray of sunshine shot downwards to trace a thin dazzling line of light amidst the majestic obscurity . As we walked noiselessly amid the thick , soft carpet of decaying vegetation the hush fell upon our souls which comes upon us in the twilight of the Abbey , and even Professor Challenger 's full-chested notes sank into a whisper . Alone , I should have been ignorant of the names of these giant growths , but our men of science pointed out the cedars , the great silk cotton trees , and the redwood trees , with all that profusion of various plants which has made this continent the chief supplier to the human race of those gifts of Nature which depend upon the vegetable world , while it is the most backward in those products which come from animal life . Vivid orchids and wonderful colored lichens smoldered upon the swarthy tree-trunks and where a wandering shaft of light fell full upon the golden allamanda , the scarlet star-clusters of the tacsonia , or the rich deep blue of ipomaea , the effect was as a dream of fairyland . In these great wastes of forest , life , which abhors darkness , struggles ever upwards to the light . Every plant , even the smaller ones , curls and writhes to the green surface , twining itself round its stronger and taller brethren in the effort . Climbing plants are monstrous and luxuriant , but others which have never been known to climb elsewhere learn the art as an escape from that somber shadow , so that the common nettle , the jasmine , and even the jacitara palm tree can be seen circling the stems of the cedars and striving to reach their crowns . Of animal life there was no movement amid the majestic vaulted aisles which stretched from us as we walked , but a constant movement far above our heads told of that multitudinous world of snake and monkey , bird and sloth , which lived in the sunshine , and looked down in wonder at our tiny , dark , stumbling figures in the obscure depths immeasurably below them . At dawn and at sunset the howler monkeys screamed together and the parrakeets broke into shrill chatter , but during the hot hours of the day only the full drone of insects , like the beat of a distant surf , filled the ear , while nothing moved amid the solemn vistas of stupendous trunks , fading away into the darkness which held us in . Once some bandy-legged , lurching creature , an ant-eater or a bear , scuttled clumsily amid the shadows . It was the only sign of earth life which I saw in this great Amazonian forest.And yet there were indications that even human life itself was not far from us in those mysterious recesses . On the third day out we were aware of a singular deep throbbing in the air , rhythmic and solemn , coming and going fitfully throughout the morning . The two boats were paddling within a few yards of each other when first we heard