word with you . How is the cigar ? `` `` Most excellent . `` `` It was rolled in Louisiana in the old slavery days . There is nothing made like them now . The man who had them did not know their value . He let them go at merely a few shillings apiece . Now I want you to do me a favour , Mr . McIntyre . `` `` I shall be so glad . `` `` You can see more or less how I am situated . I am a complete stranger here . With the well-to-do classes I have little in common . I am no society man . I do n't want to call or be called on . I am a student in a small way , and a man of quiet tastes . I have no social ambitions at all . Do you understand ? '' '' Entirely . `` `` On the other hand , my experience of the world has been that it is the rarest thing to be able to form a friendship with a poorer man -- -I mean with a man who is at all eager to increase his income . They think much of your wealth , and little of yourself . I have tried , you understand , and I know . '' He paused and ran his fingers through his thin beard.Robert McIntyre nodded to show that he appreciated his position . `` Now , you see , '' he continued , `` if I am to be cut off from the rich by my own tastes , and from those who are not rich by my distrust of their motives , my situation is an isolated one . Not that I mind isolation : I am used to it . But it limits my field of usefulness . I have no trustworthy means of informing myself when and where I may do good . I have already , I am glad to say , met a man to-day , your vicar , who appears to be thoroughly unselfish and trustworthy . He shall be one of my channels of communication with the outer world . Might I ask you whether you would be willing to become another ? `` `` With the greatest pleasure , '' said Robert eagerly.The proposition filled his heart with joy , for it seemed to give him an almost official connection with this paradise of a house . He could not have asked for anything more to his taste . `` I was fortunate enough to discover by your conversation how high a ground you take in such matters , and how entirely disinterested you are . You may have observed that I was short and almost rude with you at first . I have had reason to fear and suspect all chance friendships . Too often they have proved to be carefully planned beforehand , with some sordid object in view . Good heavens , what stories I could tell you ! A lady pursued by a bull -- -I have risked my life to save her , and have learned afterwards that the scene had been arranged by the mother as an effective introduction , and that the bull had been hired by the hour . But I wo n't shake your faith in human nature . I have had some rude shocks myself . I look , perhaps , with a jaundiced eye on all who come near me . It is the more needful that I should have one whom I can trust to advise me . `` `` If you will only show me where my opinion can be of any use I shall be most happy , '' said Robert . `` My people come from Birmingham , but I know most of the folk here and their position . `` `` That is just what I want . Money can do so much good , and it may do so much harm . I shall consult you when I am in doubt . By the way , there is one small question which I might ask you now . Can you tell me who a young lady is with very dark hair , grey eyes , and a finely chiselled face ? She wore a blue dress when I saw her , with astrachan about her neck and cuffs . `` Robert chuckled to himself . `` I know that dress pretty well , '' he said . `` It is my sister Laura whom you describe . `` `` Your sister ! Really ! Why , there is a resemblance , now that my attention is called to it . I saw her the other day , and wondered who she might be . She lives with you , of course ? `` `` Yes ; my father , she , and I live together at Elmdene . `` `` Where I hope to have the pleasure of making their acquaintance . You have finished your cigar ? Have another , or try a pipe . To the real smoker all is mere trifling save the pipe . I have most brands of tobacco here . The lockers are filled on the Monday , and on Saturday they are handed over to the old folk at the alms-houses , so I manage to keep it pretty fresh always . Well , if you wo n't take anything else , perhaps you would care to see one or two of the other effects which I have devised . On this side is the armoury , and beyond it the library . My collection of books is a limited one ; there are just over the fifty thousand volumes . But it is to some extent remarkable for quality . I have a Visigoth Bible of the fifth century , which I rather fancy is unique ; there is a 'Biblia Pauperum ' of 1430 ; a MS. of Genesis done upon mulberry leaves , probably of the second century ; a 'Tristan and Iseult ' of the eighth century ; and some hundred black-letters , with five very fine specimens of Schoffer and Fust . But those you may turn over any wet afternoon when you have nothing better to do . Meanwhile , I have a little device connected with this smoking-room which may amuse you . Light this other cigar . Now sit with me upon this lounge which stands at the further end of the room . `` The sofa in question was in a niche which was lined in three sides and above with perfectly clear transparent crystal . As they sat down the master of the house drew a cord which pulled out a crystal shutter behind them , so that they were enclosed on all sides in a great box of glass , so pure and so highly polished that its presence might very easily be forgotten . A number of golden cords with crystal handles hung down into this small chamber , and appeared to be connected with a long shining bar outside . `` Now , where would you like to smoke your cigar ? '' said Raffles Haw , with a twinkle in his demure eyes . `` Shall we go to India , or to Egypt , or to China , or to -- - '' '' To South America , '' said Robert.There was a twinkle , a whirr , and a sense of motion . The young artist gazed about him in absolute amazement . Look where he would all round were tree-ferns and palms with long drooping creepers , and a blaze of brilliant orchids . Smoking-room , house , England , all were gone , and he sat on a settee in the heart of a virgin forest of the Amazon . It was no mere optical delusion or trick . He could see the hot steam rising from the tropical undergrowth , the heavy drops falling from the huge green leaves , the very grain and fibre of the rough bark which clothed the trunks . Even as he gazed a green mottled snake curled noiselessly over a branch above his head , and a bright-coloured paroquet broke suddenly from amid the foliage and flashed off among the tree-trunks . Robert gazed around , speechless with surprise , and finally turned upon his host a face in which curiosity was not un-mixed with a suspicion of fear . `` People have been burned for less , have they not ? '' cried Raffles Haw laughing heartily . `` Have you had enough of the Amazon ? What do you say to a spell of Egypt ? `` Again the whirr , the swift flash of passing objects , and in an instant a huge desert stretched on every side of them , as far as the eye could reach . In the foreground a clump of five palm-trees towered into the air , with a profusion of rough cactus-like plants bristling from their base . On the other side rose a rugged , gnarled , grey monolith , carved at the base into a huge scarabaeus . A group of lizards played about on the surface of the old carved stone . Beyond , the yellow sand stretched away into furthest space , where the dim mirage mist played along the horizon. '' Mr . Haw , I can not understand it ! '' Robert grasped the velvet edge of the settee , and gazed wildly about him . `` The effect is rather startling , is it not ? This Egyptian desert is my favourite when I lay myself out for a contemplative smoke . It seems strange that tobacco should have come from the busy , practical West . It has much more affinity for the dreamy , languid East . But perhaps you would like to run over to China for a change ? `` `` Not to-day , '' said Robert , passing his hand over his forehead . `` I feel rather confused by all these wonders , and indeed I think that they have affected my nerves a little . Besides , it is time that I returned to my prosaic Elmdene , if I can find my way out of this wilderness to which you have transplanted me . But would you ease my mind , Mr. Haw , by showing me how this thing is done ? `` `` It is the merest toy -- -a complex plaything , nothing more . Allow me to explain . I have a line of very large greenhouses which extends from one end of my smoking-room . These different houses are kept at varying degrees of heat and humidity so as to reproduce the exact climates of Egypt , China , and the rest . You see , our crystal chamber is a tramway running with a minimum of friction along a steel rod . By pulling this or that handle I regulate how far it shall go , and it travels , as you have seen , with amazing speed . The effect of my hot-houses is heightened by the roofs being invariably concealed by skies , which are really very admirably painted , and by the introduction of birds and other creatures , which seem to flourish quite as well in artificial as in natural heat . This explains the South American effect . `` `` But not the Egyptian. '' '' No . It is certainly rather clever . I had the best man in France , at least the best at those large effects , to paint in that circular background . You understand , the palms , cacti , obelisk , and so on ,