I mounted up beside him . `` You see the slight smudge of blood upon the white plaster . What a lucky thing it is that we have had no very heavy rain since yesterday ! The scent will lie upon the road in spite of their eight-and-twenty hours ' start . `` I confess that I had my doubts myself when I reflected upon the great traffic which had passed along the London road in the interval . My fears were soon appeased , however . Toby never hesitated or swerved , but waddled on in his peculiar rolling fashion . Clearly , the pungent smell of the creasote rose high above all other contending scents . `` Do not imagine , '' said Holmes , `` that I depend for my success in this case upon the mere chance of one of these fellows having put his foot in the chemical . I have knowledge now which would enable me to trace them in many different ways . This , however , is the readiest and , since fortune has put it into our hands , I should be culpable if I neglected it . It has , however , prevented the case from becoming the pretty little intellectual problem which it at one time promised to be . There might have been some credit to be gained out of it , but for this too palpable clue . `` `` There is credit , and to spare , '' said I . `` I assure you , Holmes , that I marvel at the means by which you obtain your results in this case , even more than I did in the Jefferson Hope Murder . The thing seems to me to be deeper and more inexplicable . How , for example , could you describe with such confidence the wooden-legged man ? `` `` Pshaw , my dear boy ! it was simplicity itself . I do n't wish to be theatrical . It is all patent and above-board . Two officers who are in command of a convict-guard learn an important secret as to buried treasure . A map is drawn for them by an Englishman named Jonathan Small . You remember that we saw the name upon the chart in Captain Morstan 's possession . He had signed it in behalf of himself and his associates , -- -the sign of the four , as he somewhat dramatically called it . Aided by this chart , the officers -- -or one of them -- -gets the treasure and brings it to England , leaving , we will suppose , some condition under which he received it unfulfilled . Now , then , why did not Jonathan Small get the treasure himself ? The answer is obvious . The chart is dated at a time when Morstan was brought into close association with convicts . Jonathan Small did not get the treasure because he and his associates were themselves convicts and could not get away . `` `` But that is mere speculation , '' said I . `` It is more than that . It is the only hypothesis which covers the facts . Let us see how it fits in with the sequel . Major Sholto remains at peace for some years , happy in the possession of his treasure . Then he receives a letter from India which gives him a great fright . What was that ? `` `` A letter to say that the men whom he had wronged had been set free . `` `` Or had escaped . That is much more likely , for he would have known what their term of imprisonment was . It would not have been a surprise to him . What does he do then ? He guards himself against a wooden-legged man , -- -a white man , mark you , for he mistakes a white tradesman for him , and actually fires a pistol at him . Now , only one white man 's name is on the chart . The others are Hindoos or Mohammedans . There is no other white man . Therefore we may say with confidence that the wooden-legged man is identical with Jonathan Small . Does the reasoning strike you as being faulty ? `` `` No : it is clear and concise . `` `` Well , now , let us put ourselves in the place of Jonathan Small . Let us look at it from his point of view . He comes to England with the double idea of regaining what he would consider to be his rights and of having his revenge upon the man who had wronged him . He found out where Sholto lived , and very possibly he established communications with some one inside the house . There is this butler , Lal Rao , whom we have not seen . Mrs. Bernstone gives him far from a good character . Small could not find out , however , where the treasure was hid , for no one ever knew , save the major and one faithful servant who had died . Suddenly Small learns that the major is on his death-bed . In a frenzy lest the secret of the treasure die with him , he runs the gauntlet of the guards , makes his way to the dying man 's window , and is only deterred from entering by the presence of his two sons . Mad with hate , however , against the dead man , he enters the room that night , searches his private papers in the hope of discovering some memorandum relating to the treasure , and finally leaves a momento of his visit in the short inscription upon the card . He had doubtless planned beforehand that should he slay the major he would leave some such record upon the body as a sign that it was not a common murder , but , from the point of view of the four associates , something in the nature of an act of justice . Whimsical and bizarre conceits of this kind are common enough in the annals of crime , and usually afford valuable indications as to the criminal . Do you follow all this ? `` `` Very clearly . `` `` Now , what could Jonathan Small do ? He could only continue to keep a secret watch upon the efforts made to find the treasure . Possibly he leaves England and only comes back at intervals . Then comes the discovery of the garret , and he is instantly informed of it . We again trace the presence of some confederate in the household . Jonathan , with his wooden leg , is utterly unable to reach the lofty room of Bartholomew Sholto . He takes with him , however , a rather curious associate , who gets over this difficulty , but dips his naked foot into creasote , whence comes Toby , and a six-mile limp for a half-pay officer with a damaged tendo Achillis . `` `` But it was the associate , and not Jonathan , who committed the crime . `` `` Quite so . And rather to Jonathan 's disgust , to judge by the way he stamped about when he got into the room . He bore no grudge against Bartholomew Sholto , and would have preferred if he could have been simply bound and gagged . He did not wish to put his head in a halter . There was no help for it , however : the savage instincts of his companion had broken out , and the poison had done its work : so Jonathan Small left his record , lowered the treasure-box to the ground , and followed it himself . That was the train of events as far as I can decipher them . Of course as to his personal appearance he must be middle-aged , and must be sunburned after serving his time in such an oven as the Andamans . His height is readily calculated from the length of his stride , and we know that he was bearded . His hairiness was the one point which impressed itself upon Thaddeus Sholto when he saw him at the window . I do n't know that there is anything else . `` `` The associate ? `` `` Ah , well , there is no great mystery in that . But you will know all about it soon enough . How sweet the morning air is ! See how that one little cloud floats like a pink feather from some gigantic flamingo . Now the red rim of the sun pushes itself over the London cloud-bank . It shines on a good many folk , but on none , I dare bet , who are on a stranger errand than you and I . How small we feel with our petty ambitions and strivings in the presence of the great elemental forces of nature ! Are you well up in your Jean Paul ? `` `` Fairly so . I worked back to him through Carlyle . `` `` That was like following the brook to the parent lake . He makes one curious but profound remark . It is that the chief proof of man 's real greatness lies in his perception of his own smallness . It argues , you see , a power of comparison and of appreciation which is in itself a proof of nobility . There is much food for thought in Richter . You have not a pistol , have you ? `` `` I have my stick . `` `` It is just possible that we may need something of the sort if we get to their lair . Jonathan I shall leave to you , but if the other turns nasty I shall shoot him dead . '' He took out his revolver as he spoke , and , having loaded two of the chambers , he put it back into the right-hand pocket of his jacket.We had during this time been following the guidance of Toby down the half-rural villa-lined roads which lead to the metropolis . Now , however , we were beginning to come among continuous streets , where laborers and dockmen were already astir , and slatternly women were taking down shutters and brushing door-steps . At the square-topped corner public houses business was just beginning , and rough-looking men were emerging , rubbing their sleeves across their beards after their morning wet . Strange dogs sauntered up and stared wonderingly at us as we passed , but our inimitable Toby looked neither to the right nor to the left , but trotted onwards with his nose to the ground and an occasional eager whine which spoke of a hot scent.We had traversed Streatham , Brixton , Camberwell , and now found ourselves in Kennington Lane , having borne away through the side-streets to the east of the Oval . The men whom we pursued seemed to have taken a curiously zigzag road , with the idea probably of escaping observation . They had never kept to the main road if a parallel side-street would serve their turn . At the foot of Kennington Lane they had edged away to the left through Bond Street and Miles Street . Where the latter street turns into Knight 's Place , Toby ceased to advance , but began to run backwards and forwards with one ear cocked and the other drooping , the very picture of canine indecision . Then he waddled round in circles , looking up to us from time to time , as if to ask for sympathy in his embarrassment . `` What the deuce is the matter with the dog ?