the green turf upon their summit and a little dark group of peasants , who were watching the scene from above , but making no effort to assist the castaways . There was no alternative but to row straight in for the nearest point of land , for the boats were filling , and might go down at any moment . `` The ship 's gone ! '' Ezra said , as they rose on the summit of a wave . When they came up again all looked round , but there was no sign of the ill-fatedBlack Eagle . `` We 'll all be gone when we get among the breakers , '' shouted Captain Hamilton Miggs . `` Pull , ye devils , pull ! Beat the mate 's boat . It 's a race , my lads , and the winnin ' post is hell . `` Ezra glanced at his father , and saw that his lips were moving tremulously as they pattered forth prayers . `` Still at it ! '' he said , with a sneer . `` Making my peace , '' the old man said solemnly . `` My faith is now indeed a staff and a comfort . I look back at my long life , and though I humbly confess that I have erred , and erred grievously , still in the main I have walked straight . From my youth I have been frugal and industrious . Oh , my boy , look with candid eyes into your own heart , and see if you are fit to be called away . `` `` Look to your own beam , '' Ezra answered , keeping his eye upon the line of boiling surf , which came nearer and nearer every moment . `` How about John Harston 's daughter , eh ? '' Even at that awful hour Ezra felt a sinister pleasure at observing the spasm which shot across his father 's face at the mention of his ward . `` If I sinned I sinned for a worthy purpose , '' he answered . `` It was to preserve my business . Its fall was a blow to righteousness and a triumph to evil . Into Thy hands I commend my spirit ! `` As he spoke a great wave hurled the boat in upon its broad bosom , and flung it down upon the cruel jagged rocks , which bristled from the base of the cliff . There was a horrible rending crash , and the stout keel snapped asunder , while a second wave swept over it , tearing out the struggling occupants and bearing them on , only to hurl them upon a second ridge beyond . The peasants upon the cliff gave piteous cries of grief and pity , which blended with the agonized groans and screams of drowning men and the thunder of the pitiless surge . Looking down they could see the black dots , which indicated the heads of the poor wretches below , diminishing one by one as they were hurled upon the rocks or dragged down by the under-current.Ezra was a strong swimmer , but when he had shaken himself free of the boat , and kicked away a seaman who clung to him , he made no attempt to strike out . He knew that the waves would bear him quickly enough on to the rocks , and he reserved himself for the struggle with them . A great roller came surging over the outlying reef . It carried him in like a feather and hurled him up against the face of the cliff . As he struggled upon its crest , he mechanically put out his hands and seized a projecting portion of the rock . The shock of the contact was tremendous , but he retained his grasp and found himself , when the wave receded , standing battered and breathless upon a small niche in the front of the rock which just gave him foothold . It was a marvellous escape , for looking on either side he could not see any break in the sheer declivity.He was by no means safe as yet . If a wave had landed him there another might come as high and drag him away . Looking down he saw one or two smaller ones break into spray far below him , and then a second great green billow came rolling majestically towards him . He eyed it as it came foaming in , and calculated that it would come at least as high as his knees . Would it drag him back with it , or could he hold his own ? He braced himself as firmly as he could , placing his feet apart , and digging his nails into the inequalities of the rock until the blood gushed from them . The water surged up upon him , and he felt it tugging like some murderous demon at his legs , but he held on bravely until the pressure decreased . Looking below the saw the wave sinking down the face of the cliff . Another wave overtook it and welled it up again , and then from the depths of the green waters Ezra saw a long white arm shoot up , and grasp the edge of the ledge upon which he stood.Even before the face appeared the young man knew that the hand was his father 's . A second followed the first , and then the old merchant 's face was uplifted from the waves . He was cruelly bruised and battered , and his clothes had been partly torn away . He recognized his son , however , and looked up at him beseechingly , while he held on with all his strength to the ledge of rock . So small was the space that his clinging fingers touched Ezra 's toes . `` There 's no room here , '' the young man said brutally . `` For God 's sake ! `` `` Hardly room for one . `` The merchant was hanging with the lower portion of his body in the water . It was but a few instants , but the old man had time to think of many an incident in his past life . Once more he saw the darkened sick-room , and his own form standing by the bed of the dying man . What are these words which ring in his ears above the crash of the surf ? `` May your flesh and blood treat you as you treat her . '' He looked up appealing at his son . Ezra saw that the next wave would lift him right up on to the ledge . In that case he might be hustled off . `` Leave go ! '' he cried . `` Help me , Ezra . `` His son brought down his heavy heel upon the bloodless hands . The old African trader gave a wild shriek and fell back into the sea . Looking down , Ezra saw his despairing face gazing at him through the water . Slowly it sank until it was but a flickering white patch far down in the green depths . At the same instant a thick rope came dangling down the face of the cliff , and the young man knew that he was saved.Great was the excitement of the worthy couple at Phillimore Gardens when Kate Harston was brought back to them . Good Mrs. Dimsdale pressed her to her ample bosom and kissed her , and scolded her , and wept over her , while the doctor was so moved that it was only by assuming an expression of portentous severity and by bellowing and stamping about that he was able to keep himself in decent control . `` And you really thought we had forgotten you because we were insane enough to stop writing at that villain 's request ? '' he said , patting Kate 's pale cheeks tenderly and kissing her . `` I was very foolish , '' she said , blushing prettily and rearranging her hair , which had been somewhat tumbled by her numerous caresses . `` Oh , that scoundrel -- -that pair of scoundrels ! '' roared the doctor , shaking his fist and dancing about on the hearth-rug . `` Pray God they may catch 'em before the trial comes off ! `` The good physician 's prayer was not answered in this case , for Burt was the only criminal who appeared in the dock . Our friends all went down to the Winchester Assizes to give evidence , and the navvy was duly convicted of the death of Rebecca Taylforth and condemned to death . He was executed some three weeks afterwards , dying as he had lived , stolid and unrepenting.There is a little unpretending church not far from Phillimore Gardens , in which a little unpretending clergyman preaches every Sunday out of a very shabby pulpit . It lies in Castle Lane , which is a narrow by-way , and the great crowd of church-goers ebbs and flows within a hundred yards of it , but none know of its existence , for it has never risen to the dignity of a spire , and the bell is so very diminutive that the average muffin man produces quite as much noise . Hence , with the exception of some few families who have chanced to find their way there , and have been so pleased with their spiritual welcome that they have returned , there is a poor and fluctuating congregation . So scanty is it that the struggling incumbent could very well weep when he has spent the week in polishing and strengthening his sermon , and then finds upon the Sunday how very scanty is the audience to whom it is to be addressed.Imagine , then , this good man 's surprise when asked to publish the banns of marriage of two couples simultaneously , each of whom he knew to be in the upper circles of life , and when informed at the same time that the said marriages were actually to be celebrated under his own auspices and in his own church . In the fullness of his heart he at once bought a most unwearable black bonnet with lilac flowers and red berries , which he brought in triumph to his wife , who , good woman , affected extreme delight , and afterwards cut away all the obnoxious finery and replaced it to her own taste . The scanty congregation was no less surprised when they heard that Tobias Clutterbuck , bachlelor , was about to marry Lavinia Scully , widow , and that Thomas Dimsdale , bachelor , was to do as much to Catherine Harston , spinster . They communicated the tidings to their friends , and the result was a great advertisement to the little church , so that the incumbent preached his favourite sermon upon barren fig trees to a crowded audience , and received such an offertory as had never entered into his wildest dreams.And if this was an advertisement to the Castle Lane church , how much more so was it when the very pompous carriages came rolling up with their very pompous drivers , all of whom , being married men , had a depreciatory and wearied expression upon their faces , to show that they had done it all before and that it was nothing new to them . Out of the one carriage there jumped a very jaunty gentleman , somewhat past the middle age and a little inclined to stoutness , but looking very healthy and rosy nevertheless . Besides him there walked a tall , tawny-bearded man , who glanced