she found that it was after two . She must not delay any longer . With the little bundle of her more valuable possessions in her hand , she gave such a gasp as a diver gives before he makes his spring , and slipping past Rebecca 's half-opened door she felt her way down the wooden stair , picking her steps very carefully.Even in the daytime she had often noticed how those old planks creaked and cracked beneath her weight . Now , in the dead silence of the night , they emitted such sounds that her heart sank within her . She stopped several times , convinced that she must be discovered , but all was hushed and still . It was a relief when at last she reached the ground-floor , and was able to feel her way along the passage to the door.Shaking in every limb from cold and fear , she put her hand to the lock ; the key was not there . She tried the nail ; there was nothing there . Her wary gaoler had evidently carried it away with him to his room . Would it occur to him to do the same in the case of the back door ? It was very possible that he might have overlooked it . She retraced her steps down the passage , passed Mrs. Jorrocks ' room , where the old woman was snoring peacefully , and began to make her way as best she could through the great rambling building.Running along the basement floor from front to back there was a long corridor , one side of which was pierced for windows . At the end of this corridor was the door which she wished to reach . The moon had broken through the fog , and pouring its light through each opening cast a succession of silvery flickering spots upon the floor . Between each of these bars of uncertain light was an interval of darkness . Kate stood at the head of this corridor with her hand against the wall , awed by the sudden sight of the moonlight and by the weird effect which was produced by the alternate patches of shadow and brightness . As she stood there , suddenly , with eyes distended with horror , she became aware that something was approaching her down the corridor.She saw it moving as a dark formless mass at the further end . It passed through the bar of light , vanished , appeared once more , lost itself in the darkness , emerged again . It was half-way down the passage and still coming on . Petrified with terror , she could only wait and watch . Nearer it came and nearer . It was gliding into the last bar of light Immediately in front of her ! It was on her ! God of mercy , it was a Dominican friar ! The moon shone clear and cold upon his gaunt figure and his sombre robes . The poor girl threw up her hands , gave one terrible scream of horror , which rang through the old house , and sank senseless to the ground.It would be impossible to describe the suspense in which Tom Dimsdale lived during these weeks . In vain he tried in every manner to find some way of tracing the fugitives . He wandered aimlessly about London from one inquiry office to another , telling his story and appealing for assistance . He advertised in papers and cross-questioned every one who might know anything of the matter . There were none , however , who could help him or throw any light upon the mystery.No one at the office knew anything of the movements of the senior partner . To all inquiries Ezra replied that he had been ordered by the doctors to seek complete repose in the country . Dimsdale dogged Ezra 's footsteps night after night in the hope of gaining some clue , but in vain . On the Saturday he followed him to the railway station , but Ezra , as we have seen , succeeded in giving him the slip.His father became seriously anxious about the young fellow 's health . He ate nothing and his sleep was much broken . Both the old people tried to inculcate patience and moderation . `` That fellow , Ezra Girdlestone , knows where they are , '' Tom would cry , striding wildly up and down the room with unkempt hair and clenched hands . `` I will have his secret , if I have to tear it out of him . `` `` Steady , lad , steady ! '' the doctor replied to one of these outbursts . `` There is nothing to be gained by violence . They are on the right side of the law at present , and you will be on the wrong if you do anything rash . The girl could have written if she were uncomfortable . `` `` Ah , so she could . She must have forgotten us . How could she , after all that has passed ! `` `` Let us hope for the best , let us hope for the best , '' the doctor would say soothingly . Yet it must be confessed that he was considerably staggered by the turn which things had taken . He had seen so much of the world in his professional capacity that he had become a very reliable judge of character . All his instincts told him that Kate Harston was a true-hearted and well-principled girl . It was not in her nature to leave London and never to send a single line to her friends to tell them where or why she had gone . There must , he was sure , be some good reason for her silence , and this reason resolved itself into one or two things -- -either she was ill and unable to hold a pen , or she had lost her freedom and was restrained from writing to them . The last supposition seemed to the doctor to be the more serious of the two.Had he known the instability of the Girdlestone firm , and the necessity they were under of getting ready money , he would at once have held the key to the enigma . He had no idea of that , but in spite of his ignorance he was deeply distrustful of both father and son . He knew and had often deplored the clause in John Harston 's will by which the ward 's money reverted to the guardian . Forty thousand pounds were a bait which might tempt even a wealthy man into crooked paths.It was Saturday -- -the third Saturday since Girdlestone and his ward had disappeared . Dimsdale had fully made up his mind that , go where he would , Ezra should not escape him this time . On two consecutive Saturdays the young merchant had managed to get away from him , and had been absent each time until the Monday morning . Tom knew , and the thought was a bitter one , that these days were spent in some unknown retreat in the company of Kate and of her guardian . This time at least he should not get away without revealing his destination.The two young men remained in the office until two o'clock . Then Ezra put on his hat and overcoat , buttoning it up close , for the weather was bitterly cold . Tom at once picked up his wide-awake and followed him out into Fenchurch Street , so close to his heels that the swinging door had not shut on the one before the other passed through . Ezra glanced round at him when he heard the footsteps , and gave a snarl like an angry dog . There was no longer any pretence of civility between the two , and whenever their eyes met it was only to exchange glances of hatred and defiance.A hansom was passing down the street , and Ezra , with a few muttered words to the driver , sprang in . Fortunately another had just discharged its fare , and was still waiting by the curb . Tom ran up to it . `` Keep that red cab in sight , '' he said . `` Whatever you do , do n't let it get away from you . '' The driver , who was a man of few words , nodded and whipped up his horse.It chanced that this same horse was either a faster or a fresher one than that which bore the young merchant . The red cab rattled down Fleet Street , then doubled on its tracks , and coming back by St. Paul 's plunged into a labyrinth of side streets , from which it eventually emerged upon the Thames Embankment . In spite of all its efforts , however , it was unable to shake off its pursuer . The red cab journeyed on down the Embankment and across one of the bridges , Tom 's able charioteer still keeping only a few yards behind it . Among the narrow streets on the Surrey side Ezra 's vehicle pulled up at a low beer-shop . Tom 's drove on a hundred yards or so , and then stopped where he could have a good view of whatever occurred . Ezra had jumped out and entered the public-house . Tom waited patiently outside until he should reappear . His movements hitherto had puzzled him completely . For a moment the wild hope came into his head that Kate might be concealed in this strange hiding-place , but a little reflection showed him the absurdity and impossibility of the idea.He had not long to wait . In a very few minutes young Girdlestone came out again , accompanied by a tall , burly man , with a bushy red beard , who was miserably dressed , and appeared to be somewhat the worse for drink . He was helped into the cab by Ezra , and the pair drove off together . Tom was more bewildered than ever . Who was this fellow , and what connexion had he with the matter on hand ? Like a sleuth-hound the pursuing hansom threaded its way through the torrent of vehicles which pour down the London streets , never for one moment losing sight of its quarry . Presently they wheeled into the Waterloo Road , close to the Waterloo Station . The red cab turned sharp round and rattled up the incline which leads to the main line . Tom sprang out , tossed a sovereign to the driver , and followed on foot at the top of his speed.As he ran into the station Ezra Girdlestone and the red-bearded stranger were immediately in front of him . There was a great swarm of people all around , for , as it was Saturday , there were special trains to the country . Tom was afraid of losing sight of the two men in the crowd , so he elbowed his way through as quickly as he could , and got immediately behind them -- -so close that he could have touched them with his hand . They were approaching the booking-office , when Ezra glanced round and saw his rival standing behind him . He gave a bitter curse , and whispered something to his half-drunken companion . The latter turned , and with an inarticulate cry , like a wild beast , rushed at the young man and seized him by the throat with his brawny hands.It is one thing , however , to catch a man by the throat , and another to retain that grip , especially when your antagonist happens to be an