the stair-head , finally commended him to the protection of the holy Julian , patron of travellers.Underneath , in the porch of the Abbey , the monks had gathered to give him a last God-speed . Many had brought some parting token by which he should remember them . There was brother Bartholomew with a crucifix of rare carved ivory , and brother Luke with a white-backed psalter adorned with golden bees , and brother Francis with the `` Slaying of the Innocents '' most daintily set forth upon vellum . All these were duly packed away deep in the traveller 's scrip , and above them old pippin-faced brother Athanasius had placed a parcel of simnel bread and rammel cheese , with a small flask of the famous blue-sealed Abbey wine . So , amid hand-shakings and laughings and blessings , Alleyne Edricson turned his back upon Beaulieu.At the turn of the road he stopped and gazed back . There was the wide-spread building which he knew so well , the Abbot 's house , the long church , the cloisters with their line of arches , all bathed and mellowed in the evening sun . There too was the broad sweep of the river Exe , the old stone well , the canopied niche of the Virgin , and in the centre of all the cluster of white-robed figures who waved their hands to him . A sudden mist swam up before the young man 's eyes , and he turned away upon his journey with a heavy heart and a choking throat.It is not , however , in the nature of things that a lad of twenty , with young life glowing in his veins and all the wide world before him , should spend his first hours of freedom in mourning for what he had left . Long ere Alleyne was out of sound of the Beaulieu bells he was striding sturdily along , swinging his staff and whistling as merrily as the birds in the thicket . It was an evening to raise a man 's heart . The sun shining slantwise through the trees threw delicate traceries across the road , with bars of golden light between . Away in the distance before and behind , the green boughs , now turning in places to a coppery redness , shot their broad arches across the track . The still summer air was heavy with the resinous smell of the great forest . Here and there a tawny brook prattled out from among the underwood and lost itself again in the ferns and brambles upon the further side . Save the dull piping of insects and the sough of the leaves , there was silence everywhere -- -the sweet restful silence of nature.And yet there was no want of life -- -the whole wide wood was full of it . Now it was a lithe , furtive stoat which shot across the path upon some fell errand of its own ; then it was a wild cat which squatted upon the outlying branch of an oak and peeped at the traveller with a yellow and dubious eye . Once it was a wild sow which scuttled out of the bracken , with two young sounders at her heels , and once a lordly red staggard walked daintily out from among the tree trunks , and looked around him with the fearless gaze of one who lived under the King 's own high protection . Alleyne gave his staff a merry flourish , however , and the red deer bethought him that the King was far off , so streaked away from whence he came.The youth had now journeyed considerably beyond the furthest domains of the Abbey . He was the more surprised therefore when , on coming round a turn in the path , he perceived a man clad in the familiar garb of the order , and seated in a clump of heather by the roadside . Alleyne had known every brother well , but this was a face which was new to him -- -a face which was very red and puffed , working this way and that , as though the man were sore perplexed in his mind . Once he shook both hands furiously in the air , and twice he sprang from his seat and hurried down the road . When he rose , however , Alleyne observed that his robe was much too long and loose for him in every direction , trailing upon the ground and bagging about his ankles , so that even with trussed-up skirts he could make little progress . He ran once , but the long gown clogged him so that he slowed down into a shambling walk , and finally plumped into the heather once more . `` Young friend , '' said he , when Alleyne was abreast of him , `` I fear from thy garb that thou canst know little of the Abbey of Beaulieu . `` `` Then you are in error , friend , '' the clerk answered , `` for I have spent all my days within its walls . `` `` Hast so indeed ? '' cried he . `` Then perhaps canst tell me the name of a great loathly lump of a brother wi ' freckled face an ' a hand like a spade . His eyes were black an ' his hair was red an ' his voice like the parish bull . I trow that there can not be two alike in the same cloisters . `` `` That surely can be no other than brother John , '' said Alleyne . `` I trust he has done you no wrong , that you should be so hot against him . `` `` Wrong , quotha ? '' cried the other , jumping out of the heather . `` Wrong ! why he hath stolen every plack of clothing off my back , if that be a wrong , and hath left me here in this sorry frock of white falding , so that I have shame to go back to my wife , lest she think that I have donned her old kirtle . Harrow and alas that ever I should have met him ! `` `` But how came this ? '' asked the young clerk , who could scarce keep from laughter at the sight of the hot little man so swathed in the great white cloak . `` It came in this way , '' he said , sitting down once more : `` I was passing this way , hoping to reach Lymington ere nightfall when I came on this red-headed knave seated even where we are sitting now . I uncovered and louted as I passed thinking that he might be a holy man at his orisons , but he called to me and asked me if I had heard speak of the new indulgence in favor of the Cistercians . 'Not I , ' I answered . 'Then the worse for thy soul ! ' said he ; and with that he broke into a long tale how that on account of the virtues of the Abbot Berghersh it had been decreed by the Pope that whoever should wear the habit of a monk of Beaulieu for as long as he might say the seven psalms of David should be assured of the kingdom of Heaven . When I heard this I prayed him on my knees that he would give me the use of his gown , which after many contentions he at last agreed to do , on my paying him three marks towards the regilding of the image of Laurence the martyr . Having stripped his robe , I had no choice but to let him have the wearing of my good leathern jerkin and hose , for , as he said , it was chilling to the blood and unseemly to the eye to stand frockless whilst I made my orisons . He had scarce got them on , and it was a sore labor , seeing that my inches will scarce match my girth -- -he had scarce got them on , I say , and I not yet at the end of the second psalm , when he bade me do honor to my new dress , and with that set off down the road as fast as feet would carry him . For myself , I could no more run than if I had been sown in a sack ; so here I sit , and here I am like to sit , before I set eyes upon my clothes again . `` `` Nay , friend , take it not so sadly , '' said Alleyne , clapping the disconsolate one upon the shoulder . `` Canst change thy robe for a jerkin once more at the Abbey , unless perchance you have a friend near at hand . `` `` That have I , '' he answered , `` and close ; but I care not to go nigh him in this plight , for his wife hath a gibing tongue , and will spread the tale until I could not show my face in any market from Fordingbridge to Southampton . But if you , fair sir , out of your kind charity would be pleased to go a matter of two bow-shots out of your way , you would do me such a service as I could scarce repay . `` `` With all my heart , '' said Alleyne readily . `` Then take this pathway on the left , I pray thee , and then the deer-track which passes on the right . You will then see under a great beech-tree the hut of a charcoal-burner . Give him my name , good sir , the name of Peter the fuller , of Lymington , and ask him for a change of raiment , that I may pursue my journey without delay . There are reasons why he would be loth to refuse me . `` Alleyne started off along the path indicated , and soon found the log-hut where the burner dwelt . He was away faggot-cutting in the forest , but his wife , a ruddy bustling dame , found the needful garments and tied them into a bundle . While she busied herself in finding and folding them , Alleyne Edricson stood by the open door looking in at her with much interest and some distrust , for he had never been so nigh to a woman before . She had round red arms , a dress of some sober woollen stuff , and a brass brooch the size of a cheese-cake stuck in the front of it . `` Peter the fuller ! '' she kept repeating . `` Marry come up ! if I were Peter the fuller 's wife I would teach him better than to give his clothes to the first knave who asks for them . But he was always a poor , fond , silly creature , was Peter , though we are beholden to him for helping to bury our second son Wat , who was a 'prentice to him at Lymington in the year of the Black Death . But who are you , young sir ? `` `` I am a clerk on my road from Beaulieu to Minstead . `` `` Aye , indeed ! Hast been brought up at the Abbey then . I could read it from thy reddened cheek and downcast eye . Hast learned from the monks , I trow , to fear a woman as thou wouldst a lazar-house . Out upon them ! that they should dishonor their own mothers by such teaching