a man to slaughter . `` Tete Dieu ! '' he growled , `` were this France , or even Guienne , we should have a fresh haunch for our none-meat . Law or no law , I have a mind to loose a bolt at her . `` `` I would break your stave across my knee first , '' cried John , laying his great hand upon the bow . `` What ! man , I am forest-born , and I know what comes of it . In our own township of Hordle two have lost their eyes and one his skin for this very thing . On my troth , I felt no great love when I first saw you , but since then I have conceived over much regard for you to wish to see the verderer 's flayer at work upon you . `` `` It is my trade to risk my skin , '' growled the archer ; but none the less he thrust his quiver over his hip again and turned his face for the west.As they advanced , the path still tended upwards , running from heath into copses of holly and yew , and so back into heath again . It was joyful to hear the merry whistle of blackbirds as they darted from one clump of greenery to the other . Now and again a peaty amber colored stream rippled across their way , with ferny over-grown banks , where the blue kingfisher flitted busily from side to side , or the gray and pensive heron , swollen with trout and dignity , stood ankle-deep among the sedges . Chattering jays and loud wood-pigeons flapped thickly overhead , while ever and anon the measured tapping of Nature 's carpenter , the great green woodpecker , sounded from each wayside grove . On either side , as the path mounted , the long sweep of country broadened and expanded , sloping down on the one side through yellow forest and brown moor to the distant smoke of Lymington and the blue misty channel which lay alongside the sky-line , while to the north the woods rolled away , grove topping grove , to where in the furthest distance the white spire of Salisbury stood out hard and clear against the cloudless sky . To Alleyne whose days had been spent in the low-lying coastland , the eager upland air and the wide free country-side gave a sense of life and of the joy of living which made his young blood tingle in his veins . Even the heavy John was not unmoved by the beauty of their road , while the bowman whistled lustily or sang snatches of French love songs in a voice which might have scared the most stout-hearted maiden that ever hearkened to serenade . `` I have a liking for that north countryman , '' he remarked presently . `` He hath good power of hatred . Couldst see by his cheek and eye that he is as bitter as verjuice . I warm to a man who hath some gall in his liver . `` `` Ah me ! '' sighed Alleyne . `` Would it not be better if he had some love in his heart ? `` `` I would not say nay to that . By my hilt ! I shall never be said to be traitor to the little king . Let a man love the sex . Pasques Dieu ! they are made to be loved , les petites , from whimple down to shoe-string ! I am right glad , mon garcon , to see that the good monks have trained thee so wisely and so well . `` `` Nay , I meant not worldly love , but rather that his heart should soften towards those who have wronged him . `` The archer shook his head . `` A man should love those of his own breed , '' said he . `` But it is not nature that an English-born man should love a Scot or a Frenchman . Ma foi ! you have not seen a drove of Nithsdale raiders on their Galloway nags , or you would not speak of loving them . I would as soon take Beelzebub himself to my arms . I fear , mon gar. , that they have taught thee but badly at Beaulieu , for surely a bishop knows more of what is right and what is ill than an abbot can do , and I myself with these very eyes saw the Bishop of Lincoln hew into a Scottish hobeler with a battle-axe , which was a passing strange way of showing him that he loved him . `` Alleyne scarce saw his way to argue in the face of so decided an opinion on the part of a high dignitary of the Church . `` You have borne arms against the Scots , then ? '' he asked . `` Why , man , I first loosed string in battle when I was but a lad , younger by two years than you , at Neville 's Cross , under the Lord Mowbray . Later , I served under the Warden of Berwick , that very John Copeland of whom our friend spake , the same who held the King of Scots to ransom . Ma foi ! it is rough soldiering , and a good school for one who would learn to be hardy and war-wise . `` `` I have heard that the Scots are good men of war , '' said Hordle John . `` For axemen and for spearmen I have not seen their match , '' the archer answered . `` They can travel , too , with bag of meal and gridiron slung to their sword-belt , so that it is ill to follow them . There are scant crops and few beeves in the borderland , where a man must reap his grain with sickle in one fist and brown bill in the other . On the other hand , they are the sorriest archers that I have ever seen , and can not so much as aim with the arbalest , to say nought of the long-bow . Again , they are mostly poor folk , even the nobles among them , so that there are few who can buy as good a brigandine of chain-mail as that which I am wearing , and it is ill for them to stand up against our own knights , who carry the price of five Scotch farms upon their chest and shoulders . Man for man , with equal weapons , they are as worthy and valiant men as could be found in the whole of Christendom . `` `` And the French ? '' asked Alleyne , to whom the archer 's light gossip had all the relish that the words of the man of action have for the recluse . `` The French are also very worthy men . We have had great good fortune in France , and it hath led to much bobance and camp-fire talk , but I have ever noticed that those who know the most have the least to say about it . I have seen Frenchmen fight both in open field , in the intaking and the defending of towns or castlewicks , in escalados , camisades , night forays , bushments , sallies , outfalls , and knightly spear-runnings . Their knights and squires , lad , are every whit as good as ours , and I could pick out a score of those who ride behind Du Guesclin who would hold the lists with sharpened lances against the best men in the army of England . On the other hand , their common folk are so crushed down with gabelle , and poll-tax , and every manner of cursed tallage , that the spirit has passed right out of them . It is a fool 's plan to teach a man to be a cur in peace , and think that he will be a lion in war . Fleece them like sheep and sheep they will remain . If the nobles had not conquered the poor folk it is like enough that we should not have conquered the nobles . `` `` But they must be sorry folk to bow down to the rich in such a fashion , '' said big John . `` I am but a poor commoner of England myself , and yet I know something of charters , liberties , franchises , usages , privileges , customs , and the like . If these be broken , then all men know that it is time to buy arrow-heads . `` `` Aye , but the men of the law are strong in France as well as the men of war . By my hilt ! I hold that a man has more to fear there from the ink-pot of the one than from the iron of the other . There is ever some cursed sheepskin in their strong boxes to prove that the rich man should be richer and the poor man poorer . It would scarce pass in England , but they are quiet folk over the water . `` `` And what other nations have you seen in your travels , good sir ? '' asked Alleyne Edricson . His young mind hungered for plain facts of life , after the long course of speculation and of mysticism on which he had been trained . `` I have seen the low countryman in arms , and I have nought to say against him . Heavy and slow is he by nature , and is not to be brought into battle for the sake of a lady 's eyelash or the twang of a minstrel 's string , like the hotter blood of the south . But ma foi ! lay hand on his wool-bales , or trifle with his velvet of Bruges , and out buzzes every stout burgher , like bees from the tee-hole , ready to lay on as though it were his one business in life . By our lady ! they have shown the French at Courtrai and elsewhere that they are as deft in wielding steel as in welding it . `` `` And the men of Spain ? `` `` They too are very hardy soldiers , the more so as for many hundred years they have had to fight hard against the cursed followers of the black Mahound , who have pressed upon them from the south , and still , as I understand , hold the fairer half of the country . I had a turn with them upon the sea when they came over to Winchelsea and the good queen with her ladies sat upon the cliffs looking down at us , as if it had been joust or tourney . By my hilt ! it was a sight that was worth the seeing , for all that was best in England was out on the water that day . We went forth in little ships and came back in great galleys -- -for of fifty tall ships of Spain , over two score flew the Cross of St. George ere the sun had set . But now , youngster , I have answered you freely , and I trow it is time that you answered me . Let things be plat and plain between us . I am a man who shoots straight at his mark . You saw the things I had with me at yonder hostel : name which you will , save only the box of rose-colored sugar which I take to the Lady Loring , and you shall have