your feet wet , and wear flannel next your skin . Do n't forget your religious duties either . It has a good effect upon those among whom you do business . `` Ezra sprang from his chair with an exclamation of disgust and began to pace up and down . `` I wish to Heaven you would drop that sort of gammon when we are alone , '' he said irritably . `` My dear boy , '' said the father , with a mild look of surprise upon his face , `` you seem to be under a misapprehension in this matter . You appear to consider that we are embarking upon some unjustifiable undertaking . This is not so . What we are doing is simply a small commercial ruse -- -a finesse . It is a recognized maxim of trade to endeavour to depreciate the price of whatever you want to buy , and to raise it again when the time comes for selling . `` `` It 's steering very close to the law , '' his son retorted . `` No speculating , now , while I am away ; whatever comes in must go towards getting us out of this scrape , not to plunging us deeper in the mire . `` `` I shall not expend an unnecessary penny . `` `` Well , then , good-bye . '' said the young man , rising up and holding out his hand . `` Keep your eye on Dimsdale and do n't trust him . `` `` Good-bye , my son , good-bye -- -God bless you ! `` The old merchant was honestly moved , and his voice quivered as he spoke . He stood motionless for a minute or so until the heavy door slammed , and then he threw open the window and gazed sorrowfully down the street at the disappearing cab . His whole attitude expressed such dejection that his ward , who had just entered the room , felt more drawn towards him than she had ever done before . Slipping up to him she placed her warm tender hand upon his sympathetically . `` He will soon be back , dear Mr. Girdlestone , '' she said . `` You must not be uneasy about him . `` As she stood beside him in her white dress , with a single red ribbon round her neck and a band of the same colour round her waist , she was as fair a specimen of English girl-hood as could have been found in all London . The merchant 's features softened as he looked down at her fresh young face , and he put out his hand as though to caress her , but some unpleasant thought must have crossed his mind , for he assumed suddenly a darker look and turned away from her without a word . More than once that night she recalled that strange spasmodic expression of something akin to horror which had passed over her guardian 's features as he gazed at her.The anxious father had not very long to wait before he heard tidings of his son . Upon the first of June the great vessel weighed her anchor in the Southampton Water , and steamed past the Needles into the Channel . On the 5th she was reported from Madeira , and the merchant received telegrams both from the agent of the firm and from his son . Then there was a long interval of silence , for the telegraph did not extend to the Cape at that time , but , at last on the 8th of August , a letter announced Ezra 's safe arrival . He wrote again from Wellington , which was the railway terminus , and finally there came a long epistle from Kimberley , the capital of the mining district , in which the young man described his eight hundred miles drive up country and all the adventures which overtook him on the way . `` This place , Kimberley , '' he said in his letter , `` has grown into a fair-sized town , though a few years ago it was just a camp . Now there are churches , banks , and a club in it . There are a sprinkling of well-dressed people in the streets , but the majority are grimy-looking chaps from the diggings , with slouched hats and coloured shirts , rough fellows to look at , though quiet enough as a rule . Of course , there are blacks everywhere , of all shades , from pure jet up to the lightest yellow . Some of these niggers have money , and are quite independent . You would be surprised at their impertinence . I kicked one of them in the hotel yesterday , and he asked me what the devil I was doing , so I knocked the insolent scoundrel down . He says that he will sue me , but I can not believe that the law is so servile as to bolster up a black man against a white one . `` Though Kimberley is the capital of the dry diggings , it is not there that all the actual mining is done . It goes on briskly in a lot of little camps , which are dotted along the Vaal River for fifty or sixty miles . The stones are generally bought by licensed agents immediately after they have been found , and are paid for by cheques on banks in Kimberley . I have , therefore , transferred our money to the Standard Bank here , and have taken my licence . I start to-morrow for Hebron , Klipdrift , and other of the mining centres to see for myself how business is done and to make friends with the miners , so as to get myself known . As soon as the news comes I shall buy in all that offers . Keep your eyes on that fellow Dimsdale , and let him know nothing of what is going on . `` He wrote again about a fortnight afterwards , and his letter , as it crossed the Atlantic , passed the outward mail , which bore the news of the wonderful diamond find made by an English geologist among the Ural Mountains . `` I am now on a tour among the camps , '' he said . `` I have worked right through from Hebron to Klipdrift , Pniel , Cawood 's Hope , Waldeck 's Plant , Neukirk 's Hope , Winterrush , and Bluejacket . To-morrow I push on to Delparte 's Hope and Larkin 's Flat . I am well received wherever I go , except by the dealers , who are mostly German Jews . They hear that I am a London capitalist , and fear that I may send up the prices . They little know ! I bought stones all the way along , but not very valuable ones , for we must husband our resources . `` The process of mining is very simple . The men dig pits in loose gravel lying along the banks of the river , and it is in these pits that the diamonds are found . The black men , or 'boys , ' as they call them , do all the work , and the 'baas , ' or master , superintends . Everything that turns up belongs to the 'baas , ' but the boys have a fixed rate of wages , which never varies , whether the work is paying or not . I was standing at Hebron watching one of the gangs working when the white chap gave a shout , and dived his hand into a heap of stuff he had just turned over , pulling out a dirty looking little lump about the size of a marble . At his shout all the other fellows from every claim within hearing gathered round , until there was quite a crowd . `` 'It 's a fine stone , ' said the man that turned it up . `` 'Fifty carats if it 's one , ' cried another , weighing it in the palm of his hand . `` I had my scales with me , so I offered to weigh it . It was sixty-four and a half carats . Then they washed it and examined it . There was a lot of whispering among them and then the one who had found it came forward . `` 'You deal , do n't you , Mr . Girdlestone ? ' he said . `` 'Now and then , ' I answered , 'but I 'm not very keen about it . I came out here more for pleasure than business . `` 'Well , ' he said , 'you may go far before you see a finer stone than this . What will you bid for it ? ' '' I looked at it . 'It 's off-coloured , ' I said . `` 'It 's white , ' said he and one or two of his chums . `` 'Gentlemen , ' I said , 'it is not white . There are two shades of yellow in it . It is worth little or nothing . ' '' 'Why , if it is yellow it makes it all the more valuable , ' said a big fellow with a black beard and corduroy trousers . 'A yellow stone 's as good as a white . ' '' 'Yes , ' I answered , 'a pure yellow stone is . But this is neither one nor the other . It 's off-colour , and you know that as well as I . ' '' 'Wo n't you bid for it , then ? ' said one of them . `` 'I 'll bid seventy pounds , ' I said , 'but not a penny more . ' '' You should have heard the howl they all set up . 'It 's worth five hundred , ' the fellow cried . `` 'All right , ' I said , 'keep it and sell it for that ; good day , ' and I went off . The stone was sent after me that evening with a request for my cheque , and I sold it for a hundred two days afterwards . [ 1 ] You see old Van Harmer 's training has come in very handy . I just tell you this little anecdote to let you see that though I 'm new in the work I 'm not to be done . Nothing in the papers here from Russia . I am ready , come when it may . What would you do if there should be any hitch and the affair did not come off ? Would you cut and run , or would you stand by your colours and pay a shilling or so in the pound ? The more I think of it the more I curse your insanity in getting us into such a mess . Good-bye . `` `` He is right . It was insanity , '' said the old merchant leaning his head upon his hands . `` It seems unkind of the lad to say so when he is so far away , but he was always plain and blunt . 'If the affair did not come off ' -- -he must have some doubts about the matter , else he would not even suppose such a thing . God knows what I should do then . There are other ways -- -other ways . '' He passed his hand over his eyes as he spoke , as though to shut out some ugly vision . Such a wan , strange