`` If he is afraid of any one , he has only to name him and they will bind him over to keep the peace . `` `` My dear West , '' said young Heatherstone , `` the danger with which my father is threatened is one that can not be averted by any human intervention . It is none the less very real , and possibly very imminent . `` `` You do n't mean to assert that it is supernatural , '' I said incredulously . `` Well , hardly that , either , '' he answered with hesitation . `` There , '' he continued , `` I have said rather more than I should , but I know that you will not abuse my confidence . Good-bye ! `` He took to his heels and was soon out of sight round a curve in the country road.A danger which was real and imminent , not to be averted by human means , and yet hardly supernatural -- -here was a conundrum indeed ! I had come to look upon the inhabitants of the Hall as mere eccentrics , but after what young Mordaunt Heatherstone had just told me , I could no longer doubt that some dark and sinister meaning underlay all their actions . The more I pondered over the problem , the more unanswerable did it appear , and yet I could not get the matter out of my thoughts.The lonely , isolated Hall , and the strange , impending catastrophe which hung over its inmates , appealed forcibly to my imagination . All that evening , and late into the night , I sat moodily by the fire , pondering over what I had heard , and revolving in my mind the various incidents which might furnish me with some clue to the mystery.I trust that my readers will not set me down as an inquisitive busybody when I say that as the days and weeks went by I found my attention and my thoughts more and more attracted to General Heatherstone and the mystery which surrounded him.It was in vain that I endeavoured by hard work and a strict attention to the laird 's affairs to direct my mind into some more healthy channel . Do what I would , on land or on the water , I would still find myself puzzling over this one question , until it obtained such a hold upon me that I felt it was useless for me to attempt to apply myself to anything until I had come to some satisfactory solution of it.I could never pass the dark line of five-foot fencing , and the great iron gate , with its massive lock , without pausing and racking my brain as to what the secret might be which was shut in by that inscrutable barrier . Yet , with all my conjectures and all my observations , I could never come to any conclusion which could for a moment be accepted as an explanation of the facts.My sister had been out for a stroll one night , visiting a sick peasant or performing some other of the numerous acts of charity by which she had made herself beloved by the whole countryside . `` John , '' she said when she returned , `` have you seen Cloomber Hall at night ? `` `` No , '' I answered , laying down the book which I was reading . `` Not since that memorable evening when the general and Mr. McNeil came over to make an inspection . `` `` Well , John , will you put your hat on and come a little walk with me ? `` I could see by her manner that something had agitated or frightened her . `` Why , bless the girl ! '' cried I boisterously , `` what is the matter ? The old Hall is not on fire , surely ? You look as grave as if all Wigtown were in a blaze . `` `` Not quite so bad as that , '' she said , smiling . `` But do come out , Jack . I should very much like you to see it . `` I had always refrained from saying anything which might alarm my sister , so that she knew nothing of the interest which our neighbours ' doings had for me . At her request I took my hat and followed her out into the darkness . She led the way along a little footpath over the moor , which brought us to some rising ground , from which we could look down upon the Hall without our view being obstructed by any of the fir-trees which had been planted round it . `` Look at that ! '' said my sister , pausing at the summit of this little eminence.Cloomber lay beneath us in a blaze of light . In the lower floors the shutters obscured the illumination , but above , from the broad windows of the second storey to the thin slits at the summit of the tower , there was not a chink or an aperture which did not send forth a stream of radiance . So dazzling was the effect that for a moment I was persuaded that the house was on fire , but the steadiness and clearness of the light soon freed me from that apprehension . It was clearly the result of many lamps placed systematically all over the building.It added to the strange effect that all these brilliantly illuminated rooms were apparently untenanted , and some of them , so far as we could judge , were not even furnished . Through the whole great house there was no sign of movement or of life -- -nothing but the clear , unwinking flood of yellow light.I was still lost in wonder at the sight when I heard a short , quick sob at my side . `` What is it , Esther , dear ? '' I asked , looking down at my companion . `` I feel so frightened . Oh , John , John , take me home , I feel so frightened ! `` She clung to my arm , and pulled at my coat in a perfect frenzy of fear . `` It 's all safe , darling , '' I said soothingly . `` There is nothing to fear . What has upset you so ? `` `` I am afraid of them , John ; I am afraid of the Heatherstones . Why is their house lit up like this every night ? I have heard from others that it is always so . And why does the old man run like a frightened hare if any one comes upon him . There is something wrong about it , John , and it frightens me . `` I pacified her as well as I could , and led her home with me , where I took care that she should have some hot port negus before going to bed . I avoided the subject of the Heatherstones for fear of exciting her , and she did not recur to it of her own accord . I was convinced , however , from what I had heard from her , that she had for some time back been making her own observations upon our neighbours , and that in doing so she had put a considerable strain upon her nerves.I could see that the mere fact of the Hall being illuminated at night was not enough to account for her extreme agitation , and that it must have derived its importance in her eyes from being one in a chain of incidents , all of which had left a weird or unpleasant impression upon her mind.That was the conclusion which I came to at the time , and I have reason to know now that I was right , and that my sister had even more cause than I had myself for believing that there was something uncanny about the tenants of Cloomber.Our interest in the matter may have arisen at first from nothing higher than curiosity , but events soon look a turn which associated us more closely with the fortunes of the Heatherstone family.Mordaunt had taken advantage of my invitation to come down to the laird 's house , and on several occasions he brought with him his beautiful sister . The four of us would wander over the moors together , or perhaps if the day were fine set sail upon our little skiff and stand off into the Irish Sea.On such excursions the brother and sister would be as merry and as happy as two children . It was a keen pleasure to them to escape from their dull fortress , and to see , if only for a few hours , friendly and sympathetic faces round them.There could be but one result when four young people were brought together in sweet , forbidden intercourse . Acquaintance-ship warmed into friendship , and friendship flamed suddenly into love.Gabriel sits beside me now as I write , and she agrees with me that , dear as is the subject to ourselves , the whole story of our mutual affection is of too personal a nature to be more than touched upon in this statement . Suffice it to say that , within a few weeks of our first meeting Mordaunt Heatherstone had won the heart of my dear sister , and Gabriel had given me that pledge which death itself will not be able to break.I have alluded in this brief way to the double tie which sprang up between the two families , because I have no wish that this narrative should degenerate into anything approaching to romance , or that I should lose the thread of the facts which I have set myself to chronicle . These are connected with General Heatherstone , and only indirectly with my own personal history.It is enough if I say that after our engagement the visits to Branksome became more frequent , and that our friends were able sometimes to spend a whole day with us when business had called the general to Wigtown , or when his gout confined him to his room.As to our good father , he was ever ready to greet us with many small jests and tags of Oriental poems appropriate to the occasion , for we had no secrets from him , and he already looked upon us all as his children.There were times when on account of some peculiarly dark or restless fit of the general 's it was impossible for weeks on end for either Gabriel or Mordaunt to get away from the grounds . The old man would even stand on guard , a gloomy and silent sentinel , at the avenue gate , or pace up and down the drive as though he suspected that attempts had been made to penetrate his seclusion.Passing of an evening I have seen his dark , grim figure flitting about in the shadow of the trees , or caught a glimpse of his hard , angular , swarthy face peering out suspiciously at me from behind the bars.My heart would often sadden for him as I noticed his uncouth , nervous movements , his furtive glances and twitching features . Who would have believed that this slinking , cowering creature had once been a dashing officer , who had fought the battles of his country and had won the palm of bravery among the host of brave men around him ? In spite of the old soldier 's vigilance , we managed to hold communication with our friends.Immediately behind the Hall there was a spot where the fencing had been so carelessly erected that two of the