no means commended itself to the pupil of Ockham , who plucked a great stick from the ground and signified his dissent by smiting the realist over the pate with it . By good fortune , the wood was so light and rotten that it went to a thousand splinters , but Alleyne thought it best to leave the twain to settle the matter at their leisure , the more so as the sun was shining brightly once more . Looking back down the pool-strewn road , he saw the two excited philosophers waving their hands and shouting at each other , but their babble soon became a mere drone in the distance , and a turn in the road hid them from his sight.And now after passing Holmesley Walk and the Wooton Heath , the forest began to shred out into scattered belts of trees , with gleam of corn-field and stretch of pasture-land between . Here and there by the wayside stood little knots of wattle-and-daub huts with shock-haired laborers lounging by the doors and red-cheeked children sprawling in the roadway . Back among the groves he could see the high gable ends and thatched roofs of the franklins ' houses , on whose fields these men found employment , or more often a thick dark column of smoke marked their position and hinted at the coarse plenty within . By these signs Alleyne knew that he was on the very fringe of the forest , and therefore no great way from Christchurch . The sun was lying low in the west and shooting its level rays across the long sweep of rich green country , glinting on the white-fleeced sheep and throwing long shadows from the red kine who waded knee-deep in the juicy clover . Right glad was the traveller to see the high tower of Christchurch Priory gleaming in the mellow evening light , and gladder still when , on rounding a corner , he came upon his comrades of the morning seated astraddle upon a fallen tree . They had a flat space before them , on which they alternately threw little square pieces of bone , and were so intent upon their occupation that they never raised eye as he approached them . He observed with astonishment , as he drew near , that the archer 's bow was on John 's back , the archer 's sword by John 's side , and the steel cap laid upon the tree-trunk between them . `` Mort de ma vie ! '' Aylward shouted , looking down at the dice . `` Never had I such cursed luck . A murrain on the bones ! I have not thrown a good main since I left Navarre . A one and a three ! En avant , camarade ! `` `` Four and three , '' cried Hordle John , counting on his great fingers , `` that makes seven . Ho , archer , I have thy cap ! Now have at thee for thy jerkin ! `` `` Mon Dieu ! '' he growled , `` I am like to reach Christchurch in my shirt . '' Then suddenly glancing up , `` Hola , by the splendor of heaven , here is our cher petit ! Now , by my ten finger bones ! this is a rare sight to mine eyes . '' He sprang up and threw his arms round Alleyne 's neck , while John , no less pleased , but more backward and Saxon in his habits , stood grinning and bobbing by the wayside , with his newly won steel cap stuck wrong side foremost upon his tangle of red hair . `` Hast come to stop ? '' cried the bowman , patting Alleyne all over in his delight . `` Shall not get away from us again ! `` `` I wish no better , '' said he , with a pringling in the eyes at this hearty greeting . `` Well said , lad ! '' cried big John . `` We three shall to the wars together , and the devil may fly away with the Abbot of Beaulieu ! But your feet and hosen are all besmudged . Hast been in the water , or I am the more mistaken . `` `` I have in good sooth , '' Alleyne answered , and then as they journeyed on their way he told them the many things that had befallen him , his meeting with the villein , his sight of the king , his coming upon his brother , with all the tale of the black welcome and of the fair damsel . They strode on either side , each with an ear slanting towards him , but ere he had come to the end of his story the bowman had spun round upon his heel , and was hastening back the way they had come , breathing loudly through his nose . `` What then ? '' asked Alleyne , trotting after him and gripping at his jerkin . `` I am back for Minstead , lad . `` `` And why , in the name of sense ? `` `` To thrust a handful of steel into the Socman . What ! hale a demoiselle against her will , and then loose dogs at his own brother ! Let me go ! `` `` Nenny , nenny ! '' cried Alleyne , laughing . `` There was no scath done . Come back , friend '' -- -and so , by mingled pushing and entreaties , they got his head round for Christchurch once more . Yet he walked with his chin upon his shoulder , until , catching sight of a maiden by a wayside well , the smiles came back to his face and peace to his heart . `` But you , '' said Alleyne , `` there have been changes with you also . Why should not the workman carry his tools ? Where are bow and sword and cap -- -and why so warlike , John ? `` `` It is a game which friend Aylward hath been a-teaching of me . `` `` And I found him an over-apt pupil , '' grumbled the bowman . `` He hath stripped me as though I had fallen into the hands of the tardvenus . But , by my hilt ! you must render them back to me , camarade , lest you bring discredit upon my mission , and I will pay you for them at armorers ' prices . `` `` Take them back , man , and never heed the pay , '' said John . `` I did but wish to learn the feel of them , since I am like to have such trinkets hung to my own girdle for some years to come . `` `` Ma foi , he was born for a free companion ! '' cried Aylward , `` He hath the very trick of speech and turn of thought . I take them back then , and indeed it gives me unease not to feel my yew-stave tapping against my leg bone . But see , mes garcons , on this side of the church rises the square and darkling tower of Earl Salisbury 's castle , and even from here I seem to see on yonder banner the red roebuck of the Montacutes . `` `` Red upon white , '' said Alleyne , shading his eyes ; `` but whether roebuck or no is more than I could vouch . How black is the great tower , and how bright the gleam of arms upon the wall ! See below the flag , how it twinkles like a star ! `` `` Aye , it is the steel head-piece of the watchman , '' remarked the archer . `` But we must on , if we are to be there before the drawbridge rises at the vespers bugle ; for it is likely that Sir Nigel , being so renowned a soldier , may keep hard discipline within the walls , and let no man enter after sundown . '' So saying , he quickened his pace , and the three comrades were soon close to the straggling and broad-spread town which centered round the noble church and the frowning castle.It chanced on that very evening that Sir Nigel Loring , having supped before sunset , as was his custom , and having himself seen that Pommers and Cadsand , his two war-horses , with the thirteen hacks , the five jennets , my lady 's three palfreys , and the great dapple-gray roussin , had all their needs supplied , had taken his dogs for an evening breather . Sixty or seventy of them , large and small , smooth and shaggy -- -deer-hound , boar-hound , blood-hound , wolf-hound , mastiff , alaun , talbot , lurcher , terrier , spaniel -- -snapping , yelling and whining , with score of lolling tongues and waving tails , came surging down the narrow lane which leads from the Twynham kennels to the bank of Avon . Two russet-clad varlets , with loud halloo and cracking whips , walked thigh-deep amid the swarm , guiding , controlling , and urging . Behind came Sir Nigel himself , with Lady Loring upon his arm , the pair walking slowly and sedately , as befitted both their age and their condition , while they watched with a smile in their eyes the scrambling crowd in front of them . They paused , however , at the bridge , and , leaning their elbows upon the stonework , they stood looking down at their own faces in the glassy stream , and at the swift flash of speckled trout against the tawny gravel.Sir Nigel was a slight man of poor stature , with soft lisping voice and gentle ways . So short was he that his wife , who was no very tall woman , had the better of him by the breadth of three fingers . His sight having been injured in his early wars by a basketful of lime which had been emptied over him when he led the Earl of Derby 's stormers up the breach at Bergerac , he had contracted something of a stoop , with a blinking , peering expression of face . His age was six and forty , but the constant practice of arms , together with a cleanly life , had preserved his activity and endurance unimpaired , so that from a distance he seemed to have the slight limbs and swift grace of a boy . His face , however , was tanned of a dull yellow tint , with a leathery , poreless look , which spoke of rough outdoor doings , and the little pointed beard which he wore , in deference to the prevailing fashion , was streaked and shot with gray . His features were small , delicate , and regular , with clear-cut , curving nose , and eyes which jutted forward from the lids . His dress was simple and yet spruce . A Flandrish hat of beevor , bearing in the band the token of Our Lady of Embrun , was drawn low upon the left side to hide that ear which had been partly shorn from his head by a Flemish man-at-arms in a camp broil before Tournay . His cote-hardie , or tunic , and trunk-hosen were of a purple plum color , with long weepers which hung from either sleeve to below his knees . His shoes were of red leather , daintily pointed at the toes , but not yet prolonged to the extravagant lengths which the succeeding reign was to bring into fashion .