to give us trouble if we had its master to control it . My arguments carried the day , and the biped accompanied us as well as his four-footed companion.There was some little similarity between the two , for the man was a towsy-headed fellow with a great mop of yellow hair and a straggling beard , while the dog was of the long-haired , unkempt breed looking like an animated bundle of oakum.All our way to the Hall its owner kept retailing instances of the creature 's sagacity and powers of scent , which , according to his account , were little less than miraculous . His anecdotes had a poor audience , I fear , for my mind was filled with the strange story which I had been reading , while Mordaunt strode on with wild eyes and feverish cheeks , without a thought for anything but the problem which we had to solve.Again and again as we topped an eminence I saw him look eagerly round him in the faint hope of seeing some trace of the absentee , but over the whole expanse of moorland there was no sign of movement or of life . All was dead and silent and deserted.Our visit to the Hall was a very brief one , for every minute now was of importance . Mordaunt rushed in and emerged with an old coat of his father 's , which he handed to Fullarton , who held it out to the dog.The intelligent brute sniffed at it all over , then ran whining a little way down the avenue , came back to sniff the coat again , and finally elevating its stump of a tail in triumph , uttered a succession of sharp yelps to show that it was satisfied that it had struck the trail . Its owner tied a long cord to its collar to prevent it from going too fast for us , and we all set off upon our search , the dog tugging and straining at its leash in its excitement as it followed in the general 's footsteps.Our way lay for a couple of hundred yards along the high road , and then passed through a gap in the hedge and on to the moor , across which we were led in a bee-line to the northward.The sun had by this time risen above the horizon , and the whole countryside looked so fresh and sweet , from the blue , sparkling sea to the purple mountains , that it was difficult to realise how weird and uncanny was the enterprise upon which we were engaged.The scent must have lain strongly upon the ground , for the dog never hesitated nor stopped , dragging its master along at a pace which rendered conversation impossible.At one place , in crossing a small stream , we seemed to get off the trail for a few minutes , but our keen-nosed ally soon picked it up on the other side and followed it over the trackless moor , whining and yelping all the time in its eagerness . Had we not all three been fleet of foot and long of wind , we could not have persisted in the continuous , rapid journey over the roughest of ground , with the heather often well-nigh up to our waists.For my own part , I have no idea now , looking back , what goal it was which I expected to reach at the end of our pursuit . I can remember that my mind was full of the vaguest and most varying speculations.Could it be that the three Buddhists had had a craft in readiness off the coast , and had embarked with their prisoners for the East ? The direction of their track seemed at first to favour this supposition , for it lay in the line of the upper end of the bay , but it ended by branching off and striking directly inland . Clearly the ocean was not to be our terminus.By ten o'clock we had walked close upon twelve miles , and were compelled to call a halt for a few minutes to recover our breath , for the last mile or two we had been breasting the long , wearying slope of the Wigtown hills.From the summit of this range , which is nowhere more than a thousand feet in height , we could see , looking northward , such a scene of bleakness and desolation as can hardly be matched in any country.Right away to the horizon stretched the broad expanse of mud and of water , mingled and mixed together in the wildest chaos , like a portion of some world in the process of formation . Here and there on the dun-coloured surface of this great marsh there had burst out patches of sickly yellow reeds and of livid , greenish scum , which only served to heighten and intensify the gloomy effect of the dull , melancholy expanse.On the side nearest to us some abandoned peat-cuttings showed that ubiquitous man had been at work there , but beyond these few petty scars there was no sign anywhere of human life . Not even a crow nor a seagull flapped its way over that hideous desert.This is the great Bog of Cree . It is a salt-water marsh formed by an inroad of the sea , and so intersected is it with dangerous swamps and treacherous pitfalls of liquid mud , that no man would venture through it unless he had the guidance of one of the few peasants who retain the secret of its paths.As we approached the fringe of rushes which marked its border , a foul , dank smell rose up from the stagnant wilderness , as from impure water and decaying vegetation -- -an earthy , noisome smell which poisoned the fresh upland air.So forbidding and gloomy was the aspect of the place that our stout crofter hesitated , and it was all that we could do to persuade him to proceed . Our lurcher , however , not being subject to the delicate impressions of our higher organisation , still ran yelping along with its nose on the ground and every fibre of its body quivering with excitement and eagerness.There was no difficulty about picking our way through the morass , for wherever the five could go we three could follow.If we could have had any doubts as to our dog 's guidance they would all have been removed now , for in the soft , black , oozing soil we could distinctly trace the tracks of the whole party . From these we could see that they had walked abreast , and , furthermore , that each was about equidistant from the other . Clearly , then , no physical force had been used in taking the general and his companion along . The compulsion had been psychical and not material.Once within the swamp , we had to be careful not to deviate from the narrow track , which offered a firm foothold.On each side lay shallow sheets of stagnant water overlying a treacherous bottom of semi-fluid mud , which rose above the surface here and there in moist , sweltering banks , mottled over with occasional patches of unhealthy vegetation . Great purple and yellow fungi had broken out in a dense eruption , as though Nature were afflicted with a foul disease , which manifested itself by this crop of plague spots.Here and there dark , crab-like creatures scuttled across our path , and hideous , flesh-coloured worms wriggled and writhed amid the sickly reeds . Swarms of buzzing , piping insects rose up at every step and formed a dense cloud around our heads , settling on our hands and faces and inoculating us with their filthy venom . Never had I ventured into so pestilent and forbidding a place.Mordaunt Heatherstone strode on , however , with a set purpose upon his swarthy brow , and we could but follow him , determined to stand by him to the end of the adventure . As we advanced , the path grew narrower and narrower until , as we saw by the tracks , our predecessors had been compelled to walk in single file . Fullarton was leading us with the dog , Mordaunt behind him , while I brought up the rear . The peasant had been sulky and surly for a little time back , hardly answering when spoken to , but he now stopped short and positively refused to go a step farther . `` It 's no ' canny , '' he said , `` besides I ken where it will lead us tae . `` `` Where , then ? '' I asked . `` Tae the Hole o ' Cree , '' he answered . `` It 's no far frae here , I 'm thinking . `` `` The Hole of Cree ! What is that , then ? `` `` It 's a great , muckle hole in the ground that gangs awa ' doon so deep that naebody could ever reach the bottom . Indeed there are folk wha says that it 's just a door leadin ' intae the bottomless pit itsel ' . `` `` You have been there , then ? '' I asked . `` Been there ! '' he cried . `` What would I be doin ' at the Hole o ' Cree ? No , I 've never been there , nor any other man in his senses . `` `` How do you know about it , then ? `` `` My great-grandfeyther had been there , and that 's how I ken , '' Fullarton answered . `` He was fou ' one Saturday nicht and he went for a bet . He didna like tae talk aboot it afterwards , and he wouldna tell a ' what befell him , but he was aye feared o ' the very name . He 's the first Fullarton that 's been at the Hole o ' Cree , and he 'll be the last for me . If ye 'll tak ' my advice ye 'll just gie the matter up and gang hame again , for there 's na guid tae be got oot o ' this place . `` `` We shall go on with you or without you , '' Mordaunt answered . `` Let us have your dog and we can pick you up on our way back . `` `` Na , na , '' he cried , `` I 'll no ' hae my dog scaret wi ' bogles , and running down Auld Nick as if he were a hare . The dog shall bide wi ' me . `` `` The dog shall go with us , '' said my companion , with his eyes blazing . `` We have no time to argue with you . Here 's a five-pound note . Let us have the dog , or , by Heaven , I shall take it by force and throw you in the bog if you hinder us . `` I could realise the Heatherstone of forty years ago when I saw the fierce and sudden wrath which lit up the features of his son.Either the bribe or the threat had the desired effect , for the fellow grabbed at the money with one hand while with the other he surrendered the leash which held the lurcher . Leaving him to retrace his steps , we continued to make our way into the utmost recesses of the great swamp.The tortuous path grew less and less defined as we proceeded , and was even covered in places with water , but the increasing excitement of the hound and the sight of the deep footmarks in