? `` Some such thought had passed through the officer 's head , but the captain 's remark put him upon his mettle . `` Come with me , corporal , '' said he . `` Down this ladder , you say ? `` `` Yes , down the ladder and straight on . He lies between those two cloth bales . '' Ephraim Savage looked up with a smile playing about the corners of his grim mouth . The wind was whistling now in the rigging , and the stays of the mast were humming like two harp strings . Amos Green lounged beside the French sergeant who guarded the end of the rope ladder , while Tomlinson , the mate , stood with a bucket of water in his hand exchanging remarks in very bad French with the crew of the boat beneath him.The officer made his way slowly down the ladder which led into the hold , and the corporal followed him , and had his chest level with the deck when the other had reached the bottom . It may have been something in Ephraim Savage 's face , or it may have been the gloom around him which startled the young Frenchman , but a sudden suspicion flashed into his mind . `` Up again , corporal ! '' he shouted , `` I think that you are best at the top . `` `` And I think that you are best down below , my friend , '' said the Puritan , who gathered the officer 's meaning from his gesture . Putting the sole of his boot against the man 's chest he gave a shove which sent both him and the ladder crashing down on to the officer beneath him . As he did so he blew his whistle , and in a moment the hatch was back in its place and clamped down on each side with iron bars.The sergeant had swung round at the sound of the crash , but Amos Green , who had waited for the movement , threw his arms about him and hurled him overboard into the sea . At the same instant the connecting rope was severed , the foreyard creaked back into position again , and the bucketful of salt water soused down over the gunner and his gun , putting out his linstock and wetting his priming . A shower of balls from the marines piped through the air or rapped up against the planks , but the boat was tossing and jerking in the short choppy waves and to aim was impossible . In vain the men tugged and strained at their oars while the gunner worked like a maniac to relight his linstock and to replace his priming . The boat had lost its weigh , while the brigantine was flying along now with every sail bulging and swelling to bursting-point . Crack ! went the carronade at last , and five little slits in the mainsail showed that her charge of grape had flown high . Her second shot left no trace behind it , and at the third she was at the limit of her range . Half an hour afterwards a little dark dot upon the horizon with a golden speck at one end of it was all that could be seen of the Honfleur guard-boat . Wider and wider grew the low-lying shores , broader and broader was the vast spread of blue waters ahead , the smoke of Havre lay like a little cloud upon the northern horizon , and Captain Ephraim Savage paced his deck with his face as grim as ever , but with a dancing light in his gray eyes . `` I knew that the Lord would look after His own , '' said he complacently . `` We 've got her beak straight now , and there 's not as much as a dab of mud betwixt this and the three hills of Boston . You 've had too much of these French wines of late , Amos , lad . Come down and try a real Boston brewing with a double stroke of malt in the mash tub . `` For two days theGolden Rodlay becalmed close to the Cape La Hague , with the Breton coast extending along the whole of the southern horizon . On the third morning , however , came a sharp breeze , and they drew rapidly away from land , until it was but a vague dim line which blended with the cloud banks . Out there on the wide free ocean , with the wind on their cheeks and the salt spray pringling upon their lips , these hunted folk might well throw off their sorrows and believe that they had left for ever behind them all tokens of those strenuous men whose earnest piety had done more harm than frivolity and wickedness could have accomplished . And yet even now they could not shake off their traces , for the sin of the cottage is bounded by the cottage door , but that of the palace spreads its evil over land and sea . `` I am frightened about my father , Amory , '' said Adele , as they stood together by the shrouds and looked back at the dim cloud upon the horizon which marked the position of that France which they were never to see again . `` But he is out of danger now . `` `` Out of danger from cruel laws , but I fear that he will never see the promised land . `` `` What do you mean , Adele ? My uncle is hale and hearty . `` `` Ah , Amory , his very heart-roots were fastened in the Rue St. Martin , and when they were torn his life was torn also . Paris and his business , they were the world to him . `` `` But he will accustom himself to this new life . `` `` If it only could be so ! But I fear , I fear , that he is over old for such a change . He says not a word of complaint . But I read upon his face that he is stricken to the heart . For hours together he will gaze back at France , with the tears running silently down his cheeks . And his hair has turned from gray to white within the week . `` De Catinat also had noticed that the gaunt old Huguenot had grown gaunter , that the lines upon his stern face were deeper , and that his head fell forward upon his breast as he walked . He was about , however , to suggest that the voyage might restore the merchant 's health , when Adele gave a cry of surprise and pointed out over the port quarter . So beautiful was she at the instant with her raven hair blown back by the wind , a glow of colour struck into her pale cheeks by the driving spray , her lips parted in her excitement , and one white hand shading her eyes , that he stood beside her with all his thoughts bent upon her grace and her sweetness. '' Look ! '' she cried . `` There is something floating upon the sea . I saw it upon the crest of a wave . `` He looked in the direction in which she pointed , but at first he saw nothing . The wind was still behind them , and a brisk sea was running of a deep rich green colour , with long creamy curling caps to the larger waves . The breeze would catch these foam-crests from time to time , and then there would be a sharp spatter upon the decks , with a salt smack upon the lips , and a pringling in the eyes . Suddenly as he gazed , however , something black was tilted up upon the sharp summit of one of the seas , and swooped out of view again upon the further side . It was so far from him that he could make nothing of it , but sharper eyes than his had caught a glance of it . Amos Green had seen the girl point and observed what it was which had attracted her attention . `` Captain Ephraim , '' cried he , `` there 's a boat on the starboard quarter . `` The New England seaman whipped up his glass and steadied it upon the bulwark . `` Ay , it 's a boat , '' said he , `` but an empty one . Maybe it 's been washed off from some ship , or gone adrift from shore . Put her hard down , Mr. Tomlinson , for it just so happens that I am in need of a boat at present . `` Half a minute later theGolden Rodhad swung round and was running swiftly down towards the black spot which still bobbed and danced upon the waves . As they neared her they could see that something was projecting over her side . `` It 's a man 's head ! '' cried Amos Green.But Ephraim Savage 's grim face grew grimmer . `` It 's a man 's foot , '' said he . `` I think that you had best take the gal below to the cabin . `` Amid a solemn hush they ran alongside this lonely craft which hung out so sinister a signal . Within ten yards of her the foreyard was hauled aback and they gazed down upon her terrible crew.She was a little thirteen-foot cockle-shell , very broad for her length and so flat in the bottom that she had been meant evidently for river or lake work . Huddled together beneath the seats were three folk , a man in the dress of a respectable artisan , a woman of the same class , and a little child about a year old . The boat was half full of water and the woman and child were stretched with their faces downwards , the fair curls of the infant and the dark locks of the mother washing to and fro like water-weeds upon the surface . The man lay with a slate-coloured face , his chin cocking up towards the sky , his eyes turned upwards to the whites , and his mouth wide open showing a leathern crinkled tongue like a rotting leaf . In the bows , all huddled in a heap , and with a single paddle still grasped in his hand , there crouched a very small man clad in black , an open book lying across his face , and one stiff leg jutting upwards with the heel of the foot resting between the rowlocks . So this strange company swooped and tossed upon the long green Atlantic rollers.A boat had been lowered by theGolden Rod , and the unfortunates were soon conveyed upon deck . No particle of either food or drink was to be found , nor anything save the single paddle and the open Bible which lay across the small man 's face . Man , woman , and child had all been dead a day at the least , and so with the short prayers used upon the seas they were buried from the vessel 's side . The small man had at first seemed also to be lifeless , but Amos had detected some slight flutter of his heart , and the faintest haze was left upon the watch glass which was held before his mouth . Wrapped in a dry blanket he was laid beside the mast , and the mate forced a few drops of rum every few minutes between his lips