do you think of it , Du Lhut ? '' he asked . `` I think very badly of it . We are losing men much too fast . `` `` Well , my friend , what can you expect ? When a thousand muskets are all turned upon a little place like this , some one must suffer for it . Ah , my poor fellow , so you are done for too ! `` The man nearest him had suddenly fallen with a crash , lying quite still with his face in a platter of the sagamite which had been brought out by the women . Du Lhut glanced at him and then looked round . `` He is in a line with no loop-hole , and it took him in the shoulder , '' said he . `` Where did it come from then ? Ah , by Saint Anne , look there ! '' He pointed upwards to a little mist of smoke which hung round the summit of a high oak . `` The rascal overlooks the stockade . But the trunk is hardly thick enough to shield him at that height . This poor fellow will not need his musket again , and I see that it is ready primed . '' De la Noue laid down his cane , turned back his ruffles , picked up the dead man 's gun , and fired at the lurking warrior . Two leaves fluttered out from the tree and a grinning vermilion face appeared for an instant with a yell of derision . Quick as a flash Du Lhut brought his musket to his shoulder and pulled the trigger . The man gave a tremendous spring and crashed down through the thick foliage . Some seventy or eighty feet below him a single stout branch shot out , and on to this he fell with the sound of a great stone dropping into a bog , and hung there doubled over it , swinging slowly from side to side like a red rag , his scalp-lock streaming down between his feet . A shout of exultation rose from the Canadians at the sight , which was drowned in the murderous yell of the savages . `` His limbs twitch . He is not dead , '' cried De la Noue . `` Let him die there , '' said the old pioneer callously , ramming a fresh charge into his gun . `` Ah , there is the gray hat again . It comes ever when I am unloaded . `` `` I saw a plumed hat among the brushwood . `` `` It is the Flemish Bastard . I had rather have his scalp than those of his hundred best warriors . `` `` Is he so brave then ? `` `` Yes , he is brave enough . There is no denying it , for how else could he be an Iroquois war-chief ? But he is clever and cunning , and cruel -- - Ah , my God , if all the stories told are true , his cruelty is past believing . I should fear that my tongue would wither if I did but name the things which this man has done . Ah , he is there again . `` The gray hat with the plume had shown itself once more in a rift of the smoke . De la Noue and Du Lhut both fired together , and the cap fluttered up into the air . At the same instant the bushes parted , and a tall warrior sprang out into full view of the defenders . His face was that of an Indian , but a shade or two lighter , and a pointed black beard hung down over his hunting tunic . He threw out his hands with a gesture of disdain , stood for an instant looking steadfastly at the fort , and then sprang back into cover amid a shower of bullets which chipped away the twigs all round him . `` Yes , he is brave enough , '' Du Lhut repeated with an oath . `` Yourcensitaireshave had their hoes in their hands more often than their muskets , I should judge from their shooting . But they seem to be drawing closer upon the east face , and I think that they will make a rush there before long . `` The fire had indeed grown very much fiercer upon the side which was defended by De Catinat , and it was plain that the main force of the Iroquois were gathered at that point . From every log , and trunk , and cleft , and bush came the red flash with the gray halo , and the bullets sang in a continuous stream through the loop-holes . Amos had whittled a little hole for himself about a foot above the ground , and lay upon his face loading and firing in his own quiet methodical fashion . Beside him stood Ephraim Savage , his mouth set grimly , his eyes flashing from under his down-drawn brows , and his whole soul absorbed in the smiting of the Amalekites . His hat was gone , his grizzled hair flying in the breeze , great splotches of powder mottled his mahogany face , and a weal across his right cheek showed where an Indian bullet had grazed him . De Catinat was bearing himself like an experienced soldier , walking up and down among his men with short words of praise or of precept , those fire-words rough and blunt which bring a glow to the heart and a flush to the cheek . Seven of his men were down , but as the attack grew fiercer upon his side it slackened upon the others , and the seigneur with his son and Du Lhut brought ten men to reinforce them . De la Noue was holding out his snuff-box to De Catinat when a shrill scream from behind them made them both look round . Onega , the Indian wife , was wringing her hands over the body of her son . A glance showed that the bullet had pierced his heart and that he was dead.For an instant the old nobleman 's thin face grew a shade paler , and the hand which held out the little gold box shook like a branch in the wind . Then he thrust it into his pocket again and mastered the spasm which had convulsed his features . `` The De la Noues always die upon the field of honour , '' he remarked . `` I think that we should have some more men in the angle by the gun . `` And now it became clear why it was that the Iroquois had chosen the eastern face for their main attack . It was there that the clump of cover lay midway between the edge of the forest and the stockade . A storming party could creep as far as that and gather there for the final rush . First one crouching warrior , and then a second , and then a third darted across the little belt of open space , and threw themselves down among the bushes . The fourth was hit , and lay with his back broken a few paces out from the edge of the wood , but a stream of warriors continued to venture the passage , until thirty-six had got across , and the little patch of underwood was full of lurking savages . Amos Green 's time had come.From where he lay he could see the white patch where he had cut the bark from the birch sapling , and he knew that immediately underneath it lay the powder bag . He sighted the mark , and then slowly lowered his barrel until he had got to the base of the little trees as nearly as he could guess it among the tangle of bushes . The first shot produced no result , however , and the second was aimed a foot lower . The bullet penetrated the bag , and there was an explosion which shook the manor-house and swayed the whole line of stout stockades as though they were corn-stalks in a breeze . Up to the highest summits of the trees went the huge column of blue smoke , and after the first roar there was a deathly silence which was broken by the patter and thud of falling bodies . Then came a wild cheer from the defenders , and a furious answering whoop from the Indians , while the fire from the woods burst out with greater fury than ever.But the blow had been a heavy one . Of the thirty-six warriors , all picked for their valour , only four regained the shelter of the woods , and those so torn and shattered that they were spent men . Already the Indians had lost heavily , and this fresh disaster made them reconsider their plan of attack , for the Iroquois were as wary as they were brave , and he was esteemed the best war-chief who was most chary of the lives of his followers . Their fire gradually slackened , and at last , save for a dropping shot here and there , it died away altogether . `` Is it possible that they are going to abandon the attack ? '' cried DeCatinat joyously . `` Amos , I believe that you have saved us . `` But the wily Du Lhut shook his head . `` A wolf would as soon leave a half-gnawed bone as an Iroquois such a prize as this . `` `` But they have lost heavily . `` `` Ay , but not so heavily as ourselves in proportion to our numbers . They have fifty out of a thousand , and we twenty out of threescore . No , no , they are holding a council , and we shall soon hear from them again . But it may be some hours first , and if you will take my advice you will have an hour 's sleep , for you are not , as I can see by your eyes , as used to doing without it as I am , and there may be little rest for any of us this night . `` De Catinat was indeed weary to the last pitch of human endurance . Amos Green and the seaman had already wrapped themselves in their blankets and sunk to sleep under the shelter of the stockade . The soldier rushed upstairs to say a few words of comfort to the trembling Adele , and then throwing himself down upon a couch he slept the dreamless sleep of an exhausted man . When at last he was roused by a fresh sputter of musketry fire from the woods the sun was already low in the heavens , and the mellow light of evening tinged the bare walls of the room . He sprang from his couch , seized his musket , and rushed downstairs . The defenders were gathered at their loop-holes once more , while Du Lhut , the seigneur , and Amos Green were whispering eagerly together . He noticed as he passed that Onega still sat crooning by the body of her son , without having changed her position since morning . `` What is it , then ? Are they coming on ? '' he asked . `` They are up to some devilry , '' said Du Lhut , peering out at the corner of the embrasure . `` They are gathering thickly at the east fringe , and yet the firing comes from the south . It is not the Indian way to attack across the open