a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small speck moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant hill . We ran and ran until we were completely blown , but the space between us grew ever wider . Finally we stopped and sat panting on two rocks , while we watched him disappearing in the distance.And it was at this moment that there occurred a most strange and unexpected thing . We had risen from our rocks and were turning to go home , having abandoned the hopeless chase . The moon was low upon the right , and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stood up against the lower curve of its silver disc . There , outlined as black as an ebony statue on that shining background , I saw the figure of a man upon the tor . Do not think that it was a delusion , Holmes . I assure you that I have never in my life seen anything more clearly . As far as I could judge , the figure was that of a tall , thin man . He stood with his legs a little separated , his arms folded , his head bowed , as if he were brooding over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which lay before him . He might have been the very spirit of that terrible place . It was not the convict . This man was far from the place where the latter had disappeared . Besides , he was a much taller man . With a cry of surprise I pointed him out to the baronet , but in the instant during which I had turned to grasp his arm the man was gone . There was the sharp pinnacle of granite still cutting the lower edge of the moon , but its peak bore no trace of that silent and motionless figure.I wished to go in that direction and to search the tor , but it was some distance away . The baronet 's nerves were still quivering from that cry , which recalled the dark story of his family , and he was not in the mood for fresh adventures . He had not seen this lonely man upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which his strange presence and his commanding attitude had given to me . `` A warder , no doubt , '' said he . `` The moor has been thick with them since this fellow escaped . '' Well , perhaps his explanation may be the right one , but I should like to have some further proof of it . Today we mean to communicate to the Princetown people where they should look for their missing man , but it is hard lines that we have not actually had the triumph of bringing him back as our own prisoner . Such are the adventures of last night , and you must acknowledge , my dear Holmes , that I have done you very well in the matter of a report . Much of what I tell you is no doubt quite irrelevant , but still I feel that it is best that I should let you have all the facts and leave you to select for yourself those which will be of most service to you in helping you to your conclusions . We are certainly making some progress . So far as the Barrymores go we have found the motive of their actions , and that has cleared up the situation very much . But the moor with its mysteries and its strange inhabitants remains as inscrutable as ever . Perhaps in my next I may be able to throw some light upon this also . Best of all would it be if you could come down to us . In any case you will hear from me again in the course of the next few days.So far I have been able to quote from the reports which I have forwarded during these early days to Sherlock Holmes . Now , however , I have arrived at a point in my narrative where I am compelled to abandon this method and to trust once more to my recollections , aided by the diary which I kept at the time . A few extracts from the latter will carry me on to those scenes which are indelibly fixed in every detail upon my memory . I proceed , then , from the morning which followed our abortive chase of the convict and our other strange experiences upon the moor.October 16th . A dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain . The house is banked in with rolling clouds , which rise now and then to show the dreary curves of the moor , with thin , silver veins upon the sides of the hills , and the distant boulders gleaming where the light strikes upon their wet faces . It is melancholy outside and in . The baronet is in a black reaction after the excitements of the night . I am conscious myself of a weight at my heart and a feeling of impending danger -- -ever present danger , which is the more terrible because I am unable to define it.And have I not cause for such a feeling ? Consider the long sequence of incidents which have all pointed to some sinister influence which is at work around us . There is the death of the last occupant of the Hall , fulfilling so exactly the conditions of the family legend , and there are the repeated reports from peasants of the appearance of a strange creature upon the moor . Twice I have with my own ears heard the sound which resembled the distant baying of a hound . It is incredible , impossible , that it should really be outside the ordinary laws of nature . A spectral hound which leaves material footmarks and fills the air with its howling is surely not to be thought of . Stapleton may fall in with such a superstition , and Mortimer also , but if I have one quality upon earth it is common sense , and nothing will persuade me to believe in such a thing . To do so would be to descend to the level of these poor peasants , who are not content with a mere fiend dog but must needs describe him with hell-fire shooting from his mouth and eyes . Holmes would not listen to such fancies , and I am his agent . But facts are facts , and I have twice heard this crying upon the moor . Suppose that there were really some huge hound loose upon it ; that would go far to explain everything . But where could such a hound lie concealed , where did it get its food , where did it come from , how was it that no one saw it by day ? It must be confessed that the natural explanation offers almost as many difficulties as the other . And always , apart from the hound , there is the fact of the human agency in London , the man in the cab , and the letter which warned Sir Henry against the moor . This at least was real , but it might have been the work of a protecting friend as easily as of an enemy . Where is that friend or enemy now ? Has he remained in London , or has he followed us down here ? Could he -- -could he be the stranger whom I saw upon the tor ? It is true that I have had only the one glance at him , and yet there are some things to which I am ready to swear . He is no one whom I have seen down here , and I have now met all the neighbours . The figure was far taller than that of Stapleton , far thinner than that of Frankland . Barrymore it might possibly have been , but we had left him behind us , and I am certain that he could not have followed us . A stranger then is still dogging us , just as a stranger dogged us in London . We have never shaken him off . If I could lay my hands upon that man , then at last we might find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties . To this one purpose I must now devote all my energies.My first impulse was to tell Sir Henry all my plans . My second and wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to anyone . He is silent and distrait . His nerves have been strangely shaken by that sound upon the moor . I will say nothing to add to his anxieties , but I will take my own steps to attain my own end.We had a small scene this morning after breakfast . Barrymore asked leave to speak with Sir Henry , and they were closeted in his study some little time . Sitting in the billiard-room I more than once heard the sound of voices raised , and I had a pretty good idea what the point was which was under discussion . After a time the baronet opened his door and called for me . `` Barrymore considers that he has a grievance , '' he said . `` He thinks that it was unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he , of his own free will , had told us the secret . `` The butler was standing very pale but very collected before us . `` I may have spoken too warmly , sir , '' said he , `` and if I have , I am sure that I beg your pardon . At the same time , I was very much surprised when I heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that you had been chasing Selden . The poor fellow has enough to fight against without my putting more upon his track . `` `` If you had told us of your own free will it would have been a different thing , '' said the baronet , `` you only told us , or rather your wife only told us , when it was forced from you and you could not help yourself . `` `` I did n't think you would have taken advantage of it , Sir Henry -- -indeed I did n't . `` `` The man is a public danger . There are lonely houses scattered over the moor , and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing . You only want to get a glimpse of his face to see that . Look at Mr. Stapleton 's house , for example , with no one but himself to defend it . There 's no safety for anyone until he is under lock and key . `` `` He 'll break into no house , sir . I give you my solemn word upon that . But he will never trouble anyone in this country again . I assure you , Sir Henry , that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to South America . For God 's sake , sir , I beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the moor . They have given up the chase there , and he can lie quiet until the ship is ready for him . You ca n't tell on him without getting my wife and me into