have a story of a flight and a descent by ropes which precluded the production of larger specimens . It was ingenious , but not convincing . It was understood that Lord John Roxton claimed to have the skull of a phororachus . He could only say that he would like to see that skull . `` LORD JOHN ROXTON : 'Is this fellow calling me a liar ? ' ( Uproar . ) '' THE CHAIRMAN : 'Order ! order ! Dr. Illingworth , I must direct you to bring your remarks to a conclusion and to move your amendment. ' '' DR . ILLINGWORTH : 'Your Grace , I have more to say , but I bow to your ruling . I move , then , that , while Professor Summerlee be thanked for his interesting address , the whole matter shall be regarded as 'non-proven , ' and shall be referred back to a larger , and possibly more reliable Committee of Investigation . ' '' It is difficult to describe the confusion caused by this amendment . A large section of the audience expressed their indignation at such a slur upon the travelers by noisy shouts of dissent and cries of , 'Do n't put it ! ' 'Withdraw ! ' 'Turn him out ! ' On the other hand , the malcontents -- -and it can not be denied that they were fairly numerous -- -cheered for the amendment , with cries of 'Order ! ' 'Chair ! ' and 'Fair play ! ' A scuffle broke out in the back benches , and blows were freely exchanged among the medical students who crowded that part of the hall . It was only the moderating influence of the presence of large numbers of ladies which prevented an absolute riot . Suddenly , however , there was a pause , a hush , and then complete silence . Professor Challenger was on his feet . His appearance and manner are peculiarly arresting , and as he raised his hand for order the whole audience settled down expectantly to give him a hearing . `` 'It will be within the recollection of many present , ' said Professor Challenger , 'that similar foolish and unmannerly scenes marked the last meeting at which I have been able to address them . On that occasion Professor Summerlee was the chief offender , and though he is now chastened and contrite , the matter could not be entirely forgotten . I have heard to-night similar , but even more offensive , sentiments from the person who has just sat down , and though it is a conscious effort of self-effacement to come down to that person 's mental level , I will endeavor to do so , in order to allay any reasonable doubt which could possibly exist in the minds of anyone . ' ( Laughter and interruption . ) 'I need not remind this audience that , though Professor Summerlee , as the head of the Committee of Investigation , has been put up to speak to-night , still it is I who am the real prime mover in this business , and that it is mainly to me that any successful result must be ascribed . I have safely conducted these three gentlemen to the spot mentioned , and I have , as you have heard , convinced them of the accuracy of my previous account . We had hoped that we should find upon our return that no one was so dense as to dispute our joint conclusions . Warned , however , by my previous experience , I have not come without such proofs as may convince a reasonable man . As explained by Professor Summerlee , our cameras have been tampered with by the ape-men when they ransacked our camp , and most of our negatives ruined . ' ( Jeers , laughter , and 'Tell us another ! ' from the back . ) 'I have mentioned the ape-men , and I can not forbear from saying that some of the sounds which now meet my ears bring back most vividly to my recollection my experiences with those interesting creatures . ' ( Laughter . ) 'In spite of the destruction of so many invaluable negatives , there still remains in our collection a certain number of corroborative photographs showing the conditions of life upon the plateau . Did they accuse them of having forged these photographs ? ' ( A voice , 'Yes , ' and considerable interruption which ended in several men being put out of the hall . ) 'The negatives were open to the inspection of experts . But what other evidence had they ? Under the conditions of their escape it was naturally impossible to bring a large amount of baggage , but they had rescued Professor Summerlee 's collections of butterflies and beetles , containing many new species . Was this not evidence ? ' ( Several voices , 'No . ' ) 'Who said no ? ' '' DR . ILLINGWORTH ( rising ) : 'Our point is that such a collection might have been made in other places than a prehistoric plateau . ' ( Applause . ) '' PROFESSOR CHALLENGER : 'No doubt , sir , we have to bow to your scientific authority , although I must admit that the name is unfamiliar . Passing , then , both the photographs and the entomological collection , I come to the varied and accurate information which we bring with us upon points which have never before been elucidated . For example , upon the domestic habits of the pterodactyl -- - ' ( A voice : 'Bosh , ' and uproar ) -- -'I say , that upon the domestic habits of the pterodactyl we can throw a flood of light . I can exhibit to you from my portfolio a picture of that creature taken from life which would convince you -- -- -- ' '' DR. ILLINGWORTH : 'No picture could convince us of anything . ' '' PROFESSOR CHALLENGER : 'You would require to see the thing itself ? ' '' DR . ILLINGWORTH : 'Undoubtedly . ' '' PROFESSOR CHALLENGER : 'And you would accept that ? ' '' DR . ILLINGWORTH ( laughing ) : 'Beyond a doubt . ' '' It was at this point that the sensation of the evening arose -- -a sensation so dramatic that it can never have been paralleled in the history of scientific gatherings . Professor Challenger raised his hand in the air as a signal , and at once our colleague , Mr. E. D. Malone , was observed to rise and to make his way to the back of the platform . An instant later he re-appeared in company of a gigantic negro , the two of them bearing between them a large square packing-case . It was evidently of great weight , and was slowly carried forward and placed in front of the Professor 's chair . All sound had hushed in the audience and everyone was absorbed in the spectacle before them . Professor Challenger drew off the top of the case , which formed a sliding lid . Peering down into the box he snapped his fingers several times and was heard from the Press seat to say , 'Come , then , pretty , pretty ! ' in a coaxing voice . An instant later , with a scratching , rattling sound , a most horrible and loathsome creature appeared from below and perched itself upon the side of the case . Even the unexpected fall of the Duke of Durham into the orchestra , which occurred at this moment , could not distract the petrified attention of the vast audience . The face of the creature was like the wildest gargoyle that the imagination of a mad medieval builder could have conceived . It was malicious , horrible , with two small red eyes as bright as points of burning coal . Its long , savage mouth , which was held half-open , was full of a double row of shark-like teeth . Its shoulders were humped , and round them were draped what appeared to be a faded gray shawl . It was the devil of our childhood in person . There was a turmoil in the audience -- -someone screamed , two ladies in the front row fell senseless from their chairs , and there was a general movement upon the platform to follow their chairman into the orchestra . For a moment there was danger of a general panic . Professor Challenger threw up his hands to still the commotion , but the movement alarmed the creature beside him . Its strange shawl suddenly unfurled , spread , and fluttered as a pair of leathery wings . Its owner grabbed at its legs , but too late to hold it . It had sprung from the perch and was circling slowly round the Queen 's Hall with a dry , leathery flapping of its ten-foot wings , while a putrid and insidious odor pervaded the room . The cries of the people in the galleries , who were alarmed at the near approach of those glowing eyes and that murderous beak , excited the creature to a frenzy . Faster and faster it flew , beating against walls and chandeliers in a blind frenzy of alarm . 'The window ! For heaven 's sake shut that window ! ' roared the Professor from the platform , dancing and wringing his hands in an agony of apprehension . Alas , his warning was too late ! In a moment the creature , beating and bumping along the wall like a huge moth within a gas-shade , came upon the opening , squeezed its hideous bulk through it , and was gone . Professor Challenger fell back into his chair with his face buried in his hands , while the audience gave one long , deep sigh of relief as they realized that the incident was over. '' Then -- -oh ! how shall one describe what took place then -- -when the full exuberance of the majority and the full reaction of the minority united to make one great wave of enthusiasm , which rolled from the back of the hall , gathering volume as it came , swept over the orchestra , submerged the platform , and carried the four heroes away upon its crest ? '' ( Good for you , Mac ! ) `` If the audience had done less than justice , surely it made ample amends . Every one was on his feet . Every one was moving , shouting , gesticulating . A dense crowd of cheering men were round the four travelers . 'Up with them ! up with them ! ' cried a hundred voices . In a moment four figures shot up above the crowd . In vain they strove to break loose . They were held in their lofty places of honor . It would have been hard to let them down if it had been wished , so dense was the crowd around them . 'Regent Street ! Regent Street ! ' sounded the voices . There was a swirl in the packed multitude , and a slow current , bearing the four upon their shoulders , made for the door . Out in the street the scene was extraordinary . An assemblage of not less than a hundred thousand people was waiting . The close-packed throng extended from the other side of the Langham Hotel to Oxford Circus . A roar of acclamation greeted the four adventurers as they appeared , high above the heads of the people , under the vivid electric lamps outside the hall . 'A procession !