wings blotted out the stars , and then it vanished over the brow of the cliff above us . We all sat in amazed silence round the fire , like the heroes of Virgil when the Harpies came down upon them . It was Summerlee who was the first to speak . `` Professor Challenger , '' said he , in a solemn voice , which quavered with emotion , `` I owe you an apology . Sir , I am very much in the wrong , and I beg that you will forget what is past . `` It was handsomely said , and the two men for the first time shook hands . So much we have gained by this clear vision of our first pterodactyl . It was worth a stolen supper to bring two such men together.But if prehistoric life existed upon the plateau it was not superabundant , for we had no further glimpse of it during the next three days . During this time we traversed a barren and forbidding country , which alternated between stony desert and desolate marshes full of many wild-fowl , upon the north and east of the cliffs . From that direction the place is really inaccessible , and , were it not for a hardish ledge which runs at the very base of the precipice , we should have had to turn back . Many times we were up to our waists in the slime and blubber of an old , semi-tropical swamp . To make matters worse , the place seemed to be a favorite breeding-place of the Jaracaca snake , the most venomous and aggressive in South America . Again and again these horrible creatures came writhing and springing towards us across the surface of this putrid bog , and it was only by keeping our shot-guns for ever ready that we could feel safe from them . One funnel-shaped depression in the morass , of a livid green in color from some lichen which festered in it , will always remain as a nightmare memory in my mind . It seems to have been a special nest of these vermins , and the slopes were alive with them , all writhing in our direction , for it is a peculiarity of the Jaracaca that he will always attack man at first sight . There were too many for us to shoot , so we fairly took to our heels and ran until we were exhausted . I shall always remember as we looked back how far behind we could see the heads and necks of our horrible pursuers rising and falling amid the reeds . Jaracaca Swamp we named it in the map which we are constructing.The cliffs upon the farther side had lost their ruddy tint , being chocolate-brown in color ; the vegetation was more scattered along the top of them , and they had sunk to three or four hundred feet in height , but in no place did we find any point where they could be ascended . If anything , they were more impossible than at the first point where we had met them . Their absolute steepness is indicated in the photograph which I took over the stony desert . `` Surely , '' said I , as we discussed the situation , `` the rain must find its way down somehow . There are bound to be water-channels in the rocks . `` `` Our young friend has glimpses of lucidity , '' said Professor Challenger , patting me upon the shoulder . `` The rain must go somewhere , '' I repeated . `` He keeps a firm grip upon actuality . The only drawback is that we have conclusively proved by ocular demonstration that there are no water channels down the rocks . `` `` Where , then , does it go ? '' I persisted . `` I think it may be fairly assumed that if it does not come outwards it must run inwards . `` `` Then there is a lake in the center . `` `` So I should suppose . `` `` It is more than likely that the lake may be an old crater , '' said Summerlee . `` The whole formation is , of course , highly volcanic . But , however that may be , I should expect to find the surface of the plateau slope inwards with a considerable sheet of water in the center , which may drain off , by some subterranean channel , into the marshes of the Jaracaca Swamp . `` `` Or evaporation might preserve an equilibrium , '' remarked Challenger , and the two learned men wandered off into one of their usual scientific arguments , which were as comprehensible as Chinese to the layman.On the sixth day we completed our first circuit of the cliffs , and found ourselves back at the first camp , beside the isolated pinnacle of rock . We were a disconsolate party , for nothing could have been more minute than our investigation , and it was absolutely certain that there was no single point where the most active human being could possibly hope to scale the cliff . The place which Maple White 's chalk-marks had indicated as his own means of access was now entirely impassable.What were we to do now ? Our stores of provisions , supplemented by our guns , were holding out well , but the day must come when they would need replenishment . In a couple of months the rains might be expected , and we should be washed out of our camp . The rock was harder than marble , and any attempt at cutting a path for so great a height was more than our time or resources would admit . No wonder that we looked gloomily at each other that night , and sought our blankets with hardly a word exchanged . I remember that as I dropped off to sleep my last recollection was that Challenger was squatting , like a monstrous bull-frog , by the fire , his huge head in his hands , sunk apparently in the deepest thought , and entirely oblivious to the good-night which I wished him.But it was a very different Challenger who greeted us in the morning -- -a Challenger with contentment and self-congratulation shining from his whole person . He faced us as we assembled for breakfast with a deprecating false modesty in his eyes , as who should say , `` I know that I deserve all that you can say , but I pray you to spare my blushes by not saying it . '' His beard bristled exultantly , his chest was thrown out , and his hand was thrust into the front of his jacket . So , in his fancy , may he see himself sometimes , gracing the vacant pedestal in Trafalgar Square , and adding one more to the horrors of the London streets. '' Eureka ! '' he cried , his teeth shining through his beard . `` Gentlemen , you may congratulate me and we may congratulate each other . The problem is solved . `` `` You have found a way up ? `` `` I venture to think so . `` `` And where ? `` For answer he pointed to the spire-like pinnacle upon our right.Our faces -- -or mine , at least -- -fell as we surveyed it . That it could be climbed we had our companion 's assurance . But a horrible abyss lay between it and the plateau . `` We can never get across , '' I gasped . `` We can at least all reach the summit , '' said he . `` When we are up I may be able to show you that the resources of an inventive mind are not yet exhausted . `` After breakfast we unpacked the bundle in which our leader had brought his climbing accessories . From it he took a coil of the strongest and lightest rope , a hundred and fifty feet in length , with climbing irons , clamps , and other devices . Lord John was an experienced mountaineer , and Summerlee had done some rough climbing at various times , so that I was really the novice at rock-work of the party ; but my strength and activity may have made up for my want of experience.It was not in reality a very stiff task , though there were moments which made my hair bristle upon my head . The first half was perfectly easy , but from there upwards it became continually steeper until , for the last fifty feet , we were literally clinging with our fingers and toes to tiny ledges and crevices in the rock . I could not have accomplished it , nor could Summerlee , if Challenger had not gained the summit ( it was extraordinary to see such activity in so unwieldy a creature ) and there fixed the rope round the trunk of the considerable tree which grew there . With this as our support , we were soon able to scramble up the jagged wall until we found ourselves upon the small grassy platform , some twenty-five feet each way , which formed the summit.The first impression which I received when I had recovered my breath was of the extraordinary view over the country which we had traversed . The whole Brazilian plain seemed to lie beneath us , extending away and away until it ended in dim blue mists upon the farthest sky-line . In the foreground was the long slope , strewn with rocks and dotted with tree-ferns ; farther off in the middle distance , looking over the saddle-back hill , I could just see the yellow and green mass of bamboos through which we had passed ; and then , gradually , the vegetation increased until it formed the huge forest which extended as far as the eyes could reach , and for a good two thousand miles beyond.I was still drinking in this wonderful panorama when the heavy hand of the Professor fell upon my shoulder . `` This way , my young friend , '' said he ; `` vestigia nulla retrorsum . Never look rearwards , but always to our glorious goal . `` The level of the plateau , when I turned , was exactly that on which we stood , and the green bank of bushes , with occasional trees , was so near that it was difficult to realize how inaccessible it remained . At a rough guess the gulf was forty feet across , but , so far as I could see , it might as well have been forty miles . I placed one arm round the trunk of the tree and leaned over the abyss . Far down were the small dark figures of our servants , looking up at us . The wall was absolutely precipitous , as was that which faced me . `` This is indeed curious , '' said the creaking voice of Professor Summerlee.I turned , and found that he was examining with great interest the tree to which I clung . That smooth bark and those small , ribbed leaves seemed familiar to my eyes . `` Why , '' I cried , `` it 's a beech ! `` `` Exactly , '' said Summerlee . `` A fellow-countryman in a far land . `` `` Not only a fellow-countryman , my good sir , '' said Challenger , `` but also , if I may be allowed to enlarge your simile , an ally of the first value . This beech tree will be our saviour . `` `` By George ! '' cried Lord