ground , ready to spring back into my refuge if any danger should appear . Then , reassured by the absolute stillness and by the growing light , I took my courage in both hands and stole back along the path which I had come . Some distance down it I picked up my gun , and shortly afterwards struck the brook which was my guide . So , with many a frightened backward glance , I made for home.And suddenly there came something to remind me of my absent companions . In the clear , still morning air there sounded far away the sharp , hard note of a single rifle-shot . I paused and listened , but there was nothing more . For a moment I was shocked at the thought that some sudden danger might have befallen them . But then a simpler and more natural explanation came to my mind . It was now broad daylight . No doubt my absence had been noticed . They had imagined , that I was lost in the woods , and had fired this shot to guide me home . It is true that we had made a strict resolution against firing , but if it seemed to them that I might be in danger they would not hesitate . It was for me now to hurry on as fast as possible , and so to reassure them.I was weary and spent , so my progress was not so fast as I wished ; but at last I came into regions which I knew . There was the swamp of the pterodactyls upon my left ; there in front of me was the glade of the iguanodons . Now I was in the last belt of trees which separated me from Fort Challenger . I raised my voice in a cheery shout to allay their fears . No answering greeting came back to me . My heart sank at that ominous stillness . I quickened my pace into a run . The zareba rose before me , even as I had left it , but the gate was open . I rushed in . In the cold , morning light it was a fearful sight which met my eyes . Our effects were scattered in wild confusion over the ground ; my comrades had disappeared , and close to the smouldering ashes of our fire the grass was stained crimson with a hideous pool of blood.I was so stunned by this sudden shock that for a time I must have nearly lost my reason . I have a vague recollection , as one remembers a bad dream , of rushing about through the woods all round the empty camp , calling wildly for my companions . No answer came back from the silent shadows . The horrible thought that I might never see them again , that I might find myself abandoned all alone in that dreadful place , with no possible way of descending into the world below , that I might live and die in that nightmare country , drove me to desperation . I could have torn my hair and beaten my head in my despair . Only now did I realize how I had learned to lean upon my companions , upon the serene self-confidence of Challenger , and upon the masterful , humorous coolness of Lord John Roxton . Without them I was like a child in the dark , helpless and powerless . I did not know which way to turn or what I should do first.After a period , during which I sat in bewilderment , I set myself to try and discover what sudden misfortune could have befallen my companions . The whole disordered appearance of the camp showed that there had been some sort of attack , and the rifle-shot no doubt marked the time when it had occurred . That there should have been only one shot showed that it had been all over in an instant . The rifles still lay upon the ground , and one of them -- -Lord John 's -- -had the empty cartridge in the breech . The blankets of Challenger and of Summerlee beside the fire suggested that they had been asleep at the time . The cases of ammunition and of food were scattered about in a wild litter , together with our unfortunate cameras and plate-carriers , but none of them were missing . On the other hand , all the exposed provisions -- -and I remembered that there were a considerable quantity of them -- -were gone . They were animals , then , and not natives , who had made the inroad , for surely the latter would have left nothing behind.But if animals , or some single terrible animal , then what had become of my comrades ? A ferocious beast would surely have destroyed them and left their remains . It is true that there was that one hideous pool of blood , which told of violence . Such a monster as had pursued me during the night could have carried away a victim as easily as a cat would a mouse . In that case the others would have followed in pursuit . But then they would assuredly have taken their rifles with them . The more I tried to think it out with my confused and weary brain the less could I find any plausible explanation . I searched round in the forest , but could see no tracks which could help me to a conclusion . Once I lost myself , and it was only by good luck , and after an hour of wandering , that I found the camp once more.Suddenly a thought came to me and brought some little comfort to my heart . I was not absolutely alone in the world . Down at the bottom of the cliff , and within call of me , was waiting the faithful Zambo . I went to the edge of the plateau and looked over . Sure enough , he was squatting among his blankets beside his fire in his little camp . But , to my amazement , a second man was seated in front of him . For an instant my heart leaped for joy , as I thought that one of my comrades had made his way safely down . But a second glance dispelled the hope . The rising sun shone red upon the man 's skin . He was an Indian . I shouted loudly and waved my handkerchief . Presently Zambo looked up , waved his hand , and turned to ascend the pinnacle . In a short time he was standing close to me and listening with deep distress to the story which I told him . `` Devil got them for sure , Massa Malone , '' said he . `` You got into the devil 's country , sah , and he take you all to himself . You take advice , Massa Malone , and come down quick , else he get you as well . `` `` How can I come down , Zambo ? `` `` You get creepers from trees , Massa Malone . Throw them over here . I make fast to this stump , and so you have bridge . `` `` We have thought of that . There are no creepers here which could bear us . `` `` Send for ropes , Massa Malone . `` `` Who can I send , and where ? `` `` Send to Indian villages , sah . Plenty hide rope in Indian village . Indian down below ; send him . `` `` Who is he ? `` One of our Indians . Other ones beat him and take away his pay . He come back to us . Ready now to take letter , bring rope , -- -anything . `` To take a letter ! Why not ? Perhaps he might bring help ; but in any case he would ensure that our lives were not spent for nothing , and that news of all that we had won for Science should reach our friends at home . I had two completed letters already waiting . I would spend the day in writing a third , which would bring my experiences absolutely up to date . The Indian could bear this back to the world . I ordered Zambo , therefore , to come again in the evening , and I spent my miserable and lonely day in recording my own adventures of the night before . I also drew up a note , to be given to any white merchant or captain of a steam-boat whom the Indian could find , imploring them to see that ropes were sent to us , since our lives must depend upon it . These documents I threw to Zambo in the evening , and also my purse , which contained three English sovereigns . These were to be given to the Indian , and he was promised twice as much if he returned with the ropes.So now you will understand , my dear Mr. McArdle , how this communication reaches you , and you will also know the truth , in case you never hear again from your unfortunate correspondent . To-night I am too weary and too depressed to make my plans . To-morrow I must think out some way by which I shall keep in touch with this camp , and yet search round for any traces of my unhappy friends.Just as the sun was setting upon that melancholy night I saw the lonely figure of the Indian upon the vast plain beneath me , and I watched him , our one faint hope of salvation , until he disappeared in the rising mists of evening which lay , rose-tinted from the setting sun , between the far-off river and me.It was quite dark when I at last turned back to our stricken camp , and my last vision as I went was the red gleam of Zambo 's fire , the one point of light in the wide world below , as was his faithful presence in my own shadowed soul . And yet I felt happier than I had done since this crushing blow had fallen upon me , for it was good to think that the world should know what we had done , so that at the worst our names should not perish with our bodies , but should go down to posterity associated with the result of our labors.It was an awesome thing to sleep in that ill-fated camp ; and yet it was even more unnerving to do so in the jungle . One or the other it must be . Prudence , on the one hand , warned me that I should remain on guard , but exhausted Nature , on the other , declared that I should do nothing of the kind . I climbed up on to a limb of the great gingko tree , but there was no secure perch on its rounded surface , and I should certainly have fallen off and broken my neck the moment I began to doze . I got down , therefore , and pondered over what I should do . Finally , I closed the door of the zareba , lit three separate fires in a triangle , and having eaten a hearty supper dropped off into a profound sleep , from which I had a strange and most welcome awakening . In the early morning , just as day was breaking , a hand was laid upon my arm , and starting up , with all my nerves in a tingle and my hand feeling for a