her . She shrank away from him , and then , a sudden thought seizing her , she turned and ran through the woods as fast as her feeble strength would allow . The instant that she was out of sight , Stevens very deliberately and carefully tore up the little slip of paper with which she had entrusted him , and scattered the pieces to the wind.Kate Harston fled as quickly as she could through the wood , stumbling over the brambles and crashing through the briars , regardless of pain or scratches or anything else which could stand between her and the possibility of safety . She soon gained the shed and managed to mount on to the top of it by the aid of the barrel . Craning her neck , she could see the long dusty lane , with the bare withered hedges upon either side , and the dreary line of the railway embankment beyond . There was no pony-carriage in sight.She hardly expected that there would be , for she had taken a short cut , and the carriage would have to go some distance round . The road along which it was travelling ran at right angles to the one which she was now overlooking , and the chances were equal as to whether the lady would turn round or go straight on . In the latter case , it would not be possible for her to attract her attention . Her heart seemed to stand still with anxiety as she peered over the high wall at the spot where the two roads crossed.Presently she heard the rattle of wheels , and the brown pony trotted round the corner . The carriage drew up at the end of the lane , and the driver seemed to be uncertain how to proceed . Then she shook the reins , and the pony lumbered on along the road . Kate gave a cry of despair and the last ray of hope died away from her heart.It chanced , however , that the page in the carriage was just at that happy age when the senses are keen and on the alert . He heard the cry , and glancing round he saw through a break in the hedge that a lady was looking over the wall which skirted the lane they had passed . He mentioned the fact to his mistress . `` Maybe we 'd better go back , ma'am , '' he said . `` Maybe we 'd better not , John , '' said the buxom lady . `` People can look over their garden walls without our interfering with them , ca n't they ? `` `` Yes , ma'am , but she was a-hollerin ' at us . `` `` No , John , was she though ? Maybe this is a private road and we have no right to be on it . `` `` She gave a holler as if some one was a-hurtin ' of her , '' said John with decision . `` Then we 'll go back , '' said the lady , and turned the pony round.Hence it came about that just as Kate was descending with a sad heart from her post of observation , she was electrified to see the brown pony reappear and come trotting round the curve of the lane , with a rapidity which was altogether foreign to that quadruped 's usual habits . Indeed , the girl turned so very white at the sight , and her face assumed such an expression of relief and delight , that the lady who was approaching saw at once that it was no common matter which had caused her to summon them . `` What is it , my dear ? '' she cried , pulling up when she came abreast of the place . Her good , kind heart was touched already by the pleading expression upon the girl 's sweet face . `` Oh , madam , whoever you may be , '' said Kate , in a low , rapid voice , `` I believe God has sent you here this day . I am shut up in these grounds , and shall be murdered unless help comes . `` `` Be murdered ! '' cried the lady in the pony-carriage , dropping back in her seat and raising her hands in astonishment . `` It is only too true , '' Kate said , trying to speak concisely and clearly so as to enforce conviction , but feeling a choking sensation about her throat , as though an hysterical attack were impending . `` My guardian has shut me up here for some weeks , and I firmly believe that he will never let me out alive . Oh , do n't , pray do n't think me mad ! I am as sane as you are , though , God knows , what I have gone through has been enough to shake my reason . `` This last appeal of Kate 's was in answer to an expression of incredulity and doubt which had passed over the face of the lady below . It was successful in its object , for the ring of truth with which she spoke and the look of anxiety and terror upon her face were too genuine to be mistaken . The lady drew her rein so as to bring the carriage as near the wall as was possible without losing sight of Kate 's face . `` My dear , '' she said , `` you may safely tell me everything . Whatever I can do to help you shall be done , and where I am powerless there are others who are my friends and may be of assistance . Scully is my name -- - Mrs. Lavinia Scully , of London . Do n't cry , my poor girl , but tell me all about it , and let us see how we can put matters right . `` Thus encouraged , Kate wiped away the tears which had been brought to her eyes by the unwonted sound of a friendly voice . Leaning forward as far as she could , and preventing herself from falling by passing her arm round a great branch which shot across the top of the shed , she gave in as few words as she could a detailed account of all that had befallen her . She described her guardian 's anxiety that she should marry his son , her refusal , their sudden departure from London , their life at the Priory , the manner in which she was cut off from all human aid , and the reasons which made her believe that an attempt would be made upon her life . In conclusion , she narrated the scene which had occurred that very morning , when her guardian had tempted her to commit suicide . The only incident which she omitted from her story was that which had occurred the night before , for she felt that it might put too severe a tax upon Mrs. Scully 's credulity . Indeed , looking back at it , she almost persuaded herself that the sight which she had seen might be some phantom conjured up by her own imagination , weakened as she was in mind and in body.Having concluded her narrative , she wound up by imploring her new-found friend to assist her by letting her friends in London know what had become of her and where she was . Mrs. Scully listened with a face which expressed alternately the most profound pity and the most burning indignation . When Kate had finished , she sat silent for a minute or more entirely absorbed in her own thoughts . She switched her whip up and down viciously , and her usually placid countenance assumed an expression so fierce that Kate , looking down at her , feared that she had given her offence . When she looked up at last , however , she smiled so pleasantly that the poor girl was reassured , and felt instinctively that she had really found a true and effective friend at last . `` We must act promptly , '' she said , `` for we do n't know what they may be about , or what their plans are for the future . Who did you say your friends were ? '' '' Dr . Dimsdale , of Phillimore Gardens , Kensington . `` `` Has n't he got a grown-up son ? `` `` Yes , '' said Kate , with a slight flush on her pale cheeks. '' Ah ! '' cried the good lady , with a very roguish smile . `` I see how the land lies . Of course , of course , why should n't it ? I remember hearing about that young man . I have heard about the Girdlestones also . African merchants they were in the City . You see I know all about you . `` `` You know Tom ? '' Kate cried in astonishment . `` Oh , do n't let us get talking of Tom , '' said Mrs. Scully good-humouredly . `` When girls get on a subject of that sort there 's an end to everything . What I want now is business . In the first place I shall drive down to Bedsworth , and I shall send to London . `` `` God bless you ! '' ejaculated Kate . `` But not to Phillimore Gardens . Hot-headed young men do foolish things under such circumstances as these . This is a case that wants careful management . I know a gentleman in London who is just the man , and who I know would be only too proud to help a lady in distress . He is a retired officer , and his name is Major Clutterbuck -- -Major Tobias Clutterbuck . `` `` Oh , I know him very well , and I have heard of you , too , '' said Kate , with a smile . `` I remember your name now in connection with his . `` It was Mrs. Scully 's turn to blush now . `` Never mind that , '' she said . `` I can trust the major , and I know he will be down here at a word from me . I shall let him have the facts , and he can tell the Dimsdales if he thinks it best . Good-bye , dear ; do n't be unhappy any more , but remember that you have friends outside who will very quickly set all right . Good-bye ! '' and waving her hand in encouragement , the good widow woke up the pony , which had fallen fast asleep , and rattled away down the lane in the direction from which she had come.At four o'clock Mr. Girdlestone stepped into the Bedsworth telegraph office and wired his short message . It ran thus : `` Case hopeless . Come on to-morrow with a doctor . '' On receipt of this he knew by their agreement that his son would come down , bringing with him the man of violence whom he had spoken of at their last interview . There was nothing for it now but that his ward should die . If he delayed longer , the crash might come before her money was available , and then how vain all regrets would be.It seemed to him that there was very little risk in the matter . The girl had had no communication with any one . Even of those around her , Mrs. Jorrocks was in her dotage , Rebecca Taylforth was staunch and true , and Stevens knew nothing