things which have happened since I have been on the moor . You understand me ? I am sure that you are the last man in the world who would wish to be a spoil-sport . I must go out alone . `` It put me in a most awkward position . I was at a loss what to say or what to do , and before I had made up my mind he picked up his cane and was gone.But when I came to think the matter over my conscience reproached me bitterly for having on any pretext allowed him to go out of my sight . I imagined what my feelings would be if I had to return to you and to confess that some misfortune had occurred through my disregard for your instructions . I assure you my cheeks flushed at the very thought . It might not even now be too late to overtake him , so I set off at once in the direction of Merripit House.I hurried along the road at the top of my speed without seeing anything of Sir Henry , until I came to the point where the moor path branches off . There , fearing that perhaps I had come in the wrong direction after all , I mounted a hill from which I could command a view -- -the same hill which is cut into the dark quarry . Thence I saw him at once . He was on the moor path about a quarter of a mile off , and a lady was by his side who could only be Miss Stapleton . It was clear that there was already an understanding between them and that they had met by appointment . They were walking slowly along in deep conversation , and I saw her making quick little movements of her hands as if she were very earnest in what she was saying , while he listened intently , and once or twice shook his head in strong dissent . I stood among the rocks watching them , very much puzzled as to what I should do next . To follow them and break into their intimate conversation seemed to be an outrage , and yet my clear duty was never for an instant to let him out of my sight . To act the spy upon a friend was a hateful task . Still , I could see no better course than to observe him from the hill , and to clear my conscience by confessing to him afterwards what I had done . It is true that if any sudden danger had threatened him I was too far away to be of use , and yet I am sure that you will agree with me that the position was very difficult , and that there was nothing more which I could do.Our friend , Sir Henry , and the lady had halted on the path and were standing deeply absorbed in their conversation , when I was suddenly aware that I was not the only witness of their interview . A wisp of green floating in the air caught my eye , and another glance showed me that it was carried on a stick by a man who was moving among the broken ground . It was Stapleton with his butterfly-net . He was very much closer to the pair than I was , and he appeared to be moving in their direction . At this instant Sir Henry suddenly drew Miss Stapleton to his side . His arm was round her , but it seemed to me that she was straining away from him with her face averted . He stooped his head to hers , and she raised one hand as if in protest . Next moment I saw them spring apart and turn hurriedly round . Stapleton was the cause of the interruption . He was running wildly towards them , his absurd net dangling behind him . He gesticulated and almost danced with excitement in front of the lovers . What the scene meant I could not imagine , but it seemed to me that Stapleton was abusing Sir Henry , who offered explanations , which became more angry as the other refused to accept them . The lady stood by in haughty silence . Finally Stapleton turned upon his heel and beckoned in a peremptory way to his sister , who , after an irresolute glance at Sir Henry , walked off by the side of her brother . The naturalist 's angry gestures showed that the lady was included in his displeasure . The baronet stood for a minute looking after them , and then he walked slowly back the way that he had come , his head hanging , the very picture of dejection.What all this meant I could not imagine , but I was deeply ashamed to have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend 's knowledge . I ran down the hill therefore and met the baronet at the bottom . His face was flushed with anger and his brows were wrinkled , like one who is at his wit 's ends what to do . `` Halloa , Watson ! Where have you dropped from ? '' said he . `` You do n't mean to say that you came after me in spite of all ? `` I explained everything to him : how I had found it impossible to remain behind , how I had followed him , and how I had witnessed all that had occurred . For an instant his eyes blazed at me , but my frankness disarmed his anger , and he broke at last into a rather rueful laugh . `` You would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe place for a man to be private , '' said he , `` but , by thunder , the whole countryside seems to have been out to see me do my wooing -- -and a mighty poor wooing at that ! Where had you engaged a seat ? `` `` I was on that hill . `` `` Quite in the back row , eh ? But her brother was well up to the front . Did you see him come out on us ? `` `` Yes , I did . `` `` Did he ever strike you as being crazy -- -this brother of hers ? `` `` I ca n't say that he ever did . `` `` I dare say not . I always thought him sane enough until today , but you can take it from me that either he or I ought to be in a straitjacket . What 's the matter with me , anyhow ? You 've lived near me for some weeks , Watson . Tell me straight , now ! Is there anything that would prevent me from making a good husband to a woman that I loved ? `` `` I should say not . `` `` He ca n't object to my worldly position , so it must be myself that he has this down on . What has he against me ? I never hurt man or woman in my life that I know of . And yet he would not so much as let me touch the tips of her fingers . `` `` Did he say so ? `` `` That , and a deal more . I tell you , Watson , I 've only known her these few weeks , but from the first I just felt that she was made for me , and she , too -- -she was happy when she was with me , and that I 'll swear . There 's a light in a woman 's eyes that speaks louder than words . But he has never let us get together and it was only today for the first time that I saw a chance of having a few words with her alone . She was glad to meet me , but when she did it was not love that she would talk about , and she would n't have let me talk about it either if she could have stopped it . She kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger , and that she would never be happy until I had left it . I told her that since I had seen her I was in no hurry to leave it , and that if she really wanted me to go , the only way to work it was for her to arrange to go with me . With that I offered in as many words to marry her , but before she could answer , down came this brother of hers , running at us with a face on him like a madman . He was just white with rage , and those light eyes of his were blazing with fury . What was I doing with the lady ? How dared I offer her attentions which were distasteful to her ? Did I think that because I was a baronet I could do what I liked ? If he had not been her brother I should have known better how to answer him . As it was I told him that my feelings towards his sister were such as I was not ashamed of , and that I hoped that she might honour me by becoming my wife . That seemed to make the matter no better , so then I lost my temper too , and I answered him rather more hotly than I should perhaps , considering that she was standing by . So it ended by his going off with her , as you saw , and here am I as badly puzzled a man as any in this county . Just tell me what it all means , Watson , and I 'll owe you more than ever I can hope to pay . `` I tried one or two explanations , but , indeed , I was completely puzzled myself . Our friend 's title , his fortune , his age , his character , and his appearance are all in his favour , and I know nothing against him unless it be this dark fate which runs in his family . That his advances should be rejected so brusquely without any reference to the lady 's own wishes and that the lady should accept the situation without protest is very amazing . However , our conjectures were set at rest by a visit from Stapleton himself that very afternoon . He had come to offer apologies for his rudeness of the morning , and after a long private interview with Sir Henry in his study the upshot of their conversation was that the breach is quite healed , and that we are to dine at Merripit House next Friday as a sign of it . `` I do n't say now that he is n't a crazy man , '' said Sir Henry ; `` I ca n't forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning , but I must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than he has done . `` `` Did he give any explanation of his conduct ? `` `` His sister is everything in his life , he says . That is natural enough , and I am glad that he should understand her value . They have always been together , and according to his account he has been a very lonely man with only her as a companion , so that the thought of losing her was really terrible to him .