nothing like the size of the old quarter , where nobody goes , and which is given over to the scorpions and the centipedes . It is all full of great deserted halls , and winding passages , and long corridors twisting in and out , so that it is easy enough for folk to get lost in it . For this reason it was seldom that any one went into it , though now and again a party with torches might go exploring . `` The river washes along the front of the old fort , and so protects it , but on the sides and behind there are many doors , and these had to be guarded , of course , in the old quarter as well as in that which was actually held by our troops . We were short-handed , with hardly men enough to man the angles of the building and to serve the guns . It was impossible for us , therefore , to station a strong guard at every one of the innumerable gates . What we did was to organize a central guard-house in the middle of the fort , and to leave each gate under the charge of one white man and two or three natives . I was selected to take charge during certain hours of the night of a small isolated door upon the southwest side of the building . Two Sikh troopers were placed under my command , and I was instructed if anything went wrong to fire my musket , when I might rely upon help coming at once from the central guard . As the guard was a good two hundred paces away , however , and as the space between was cut up into a labyrinth of passages and corridors , I had great doubts as to whether they could arrive in time to be of any use in case of an actual attack . `` Well , I was pretty proud at having this small command given me , since I was a raw recruit , and a game-legged one at that . For two nights I kept the watch with my Punjaubees . They were tall , fierce-looking chaps , Mahomet Singh and Abdullah Khan by name , both old fighting-men who had borne arms against us at Chilian-wallah . They could talk English pretty well , but I could get little out of them . They preferred to stand together and jabber all night in their queer Sikh lingo . For myself , I used to stand outside the gate-way , looking down on the broad , winding river and on the twinkling lights of the great city . The beating of drums , the rattle of tomtoms , and the yells and howls of the rebels , drunk with opium and with bang , were enough to remind us all night of our dangerous neighbors across the stream . Every two hours the officer of the night used to come round to all the posts , to make sure that all was well . `` The third night of my watch was dark and dirty , with a small , driving rain . It was dreary work standing in the gate-way hour after hour in such weather . I tried again and again to make my Sikhs talk , but without much success . At two in the morning the rounds passed , and broke for a moment the weariness of the night . Finding that my companions would not be led into conversation , I took out my pipe , and laid down my musket to strike the match . In an instant the two Sikhs were upon me . One of them snatched my firelock up and levelled it at my head , while the other held a great knife to my throat and swore between his teeth that he would plunge it into me if I moved a step . `` My first thought was that these fellows were in league with the rebels , and that this was the beginning of an assault . If our door were in the hands of the Sepoys the place must fall , and the women and children be treated as they were in Cawnpore . Maybe you gentlemen think that I am just making out a case for myself , but I give you my word that when I thought of that , though I felt the point of the knife at my throat , I opened my mouth with the intention of giving a scream , if it was my last one , which might alarm the main guard . The man who held me seemed to know my thoughts ; for , even as I braced myself to it , he whispered , 'Do n't make a noise . The fort is safe enough . There are no rebel dogs on this side of the river . ' There was the ring of truth in what he said , and I knew that if I raised my voice I was a dead man . I could read it in the fellow 's brown eyes . I waited , therefore , in silence , to see what it was that they wanted from me . `` 'Listen to me , Sahib , ' said the taller and fiercer of the pair , the one whom they called Abdullah Khan . 'You must either be with us now or you must be silenced forever . The thing is too great a one for us to hesitate . Either you are heart and soul with us on your oath on the cross of the Christians , or your body this night shall be thrown into the ditch and we shall pass over to our brothers in the rebel army . There is no middle way . Which is it to be , death or life ? We can only give you three minutes to decide , for the time is passing , and all must be done before the rounds come again . ' '' 'How can I decide ? ' said I . 'You have not told me what you want of me . But I tell you now that if it is anything against the safety of the fort I will have no truck with it , so you can drive home your knife and welcome . ' '' 'It is nothing against the fort , ' said he . 'We only ask you to do that which your countrymen come to this land for . We ask you to be rich . If you will be one of us this night , we will swear to you upon the naked knife , and by the threefold oath which no Sikh was ever known to break , that you shall have your fair share of the loot . A quarter of the treasure shall be yours . We can say no fairer . ' '' 'But what is the treasure , then ? ' I asked . 'I am as ready to be rich as you can be , if you will but show me how it can be done . ' '' 'You will swear , then , ' said he , 'by the bones of your father , by the honor of your mother , by the cross of your faith , to raise no hand and speak no word against us , either now or afterwards ? ' '' 'I will swear it , ' I answered , 'provided that the fort is not endangered . ' '' 'Then my comrade and I will swear that you shall have a quarter of the treasure which shall be equally divided among the four of us . ' '' 'There are but three , ' said I . `` 'No ; Dost Akbar must have his share . We can tell the tale to you while we await them . Do you stand at the gate , Mahomet Singh , and give notice of their coming . The thing stands thus , Sahib , and I tell it to you because I know that an oath is binding upon a Feringhee , and that we may trust you . Had you been a lying Hindoo , though you had sworn by all the gods in their false temples , your blood would have been upon the knife , and your body in the water . But the Sikh knows the Englishman , and the Englishman knows the Sikh . Hearken , then , to what I have to say . `` 'There is a rajah in the northern provinces who has much wealth , though his lands are small . Much has come to him from his father , and more still he has set by himself , for he is of a low nature and hoards his gold rather than spend it . When the troubles broke out he would be friends both with the lion and the tiger , -- -with the Sepoy and with the Company 's Raj . Soon , however , it seemed to him that the white men 's day was come , for through all the land he could hear of nothing but of their death and their overthrow . Yet , being a careful man , he made such plans that , come what might , half at least of his treasure should be left to him . That which was in gold and silver he kept by him in the vaults of his palace , but the most precious stones and the choicest pearls that he had he put in an iron box , and sent it by a trusty servant who , under the guise of a merchant , should take it to the fort at Agra , there to lie until the land is at peace . Thus , if the rebels won he would have his money , but if the Company conquered his jewels would be saved to him . Having thus divided his hoard , he threw himself into the cause of the Sepoys , since they were strong upon his borders . By doing this , mark you , Sahib , his property becomes the due of those who have been true to their salt . `` 'This pretended merchant , who travels under the name of Achmet , is now in the city of Agra , and desires to gain his way into the fort . He has with him as travelling-companion my foster-brother Dost Akbar , who knows his secret . Dost Akbar has promised this night to lead him to a side-postern of the fort , and has chosen this one for his purpose . Here he will come presently , and here he will find Mahomet Singh and myself awaiting him . The place is lonely , and none shall know of his coming . The world shall know of the merchant Achmet no more , but the great treasure of the rajah shall be divided among us . What say you to it , Sahib ? ' '' In Worcestershire the life of a man seems a great and a sacred thing ; but it is very different when there is fire and blood all round you and you have been used to meeting death at every turn . Whether Achmet the merchant lived or died was a thing as light as air to me , but at the talk about the treasure my heart turned to it , and I thought of what I might do in the old country with it , and how my folk would stare when they saw their ne'er-do-well coming back with his pockets full of gold moidores . I had ,