untold centuries had reached its bloody end.For us the victory brought much advantage . Once again we were able to visit our camp and get at our stores . Once more also we were able to communicate with Zambo , who had been terrified by the spectacle from afar of an avalanche of apes falling from the edge of the cliff . `` Come away , Massas , come away ! '' he cried , his eyes starting from his head . `` The debbil get you sure if you stay up there . `` `` It is the voice of sanity ! '' said Summerlee with conviction . `` We have had adventures enough and they are neither suitable to our character or our position . I hold you to your word , Challenger . From now onwards you devote your energies to getting us out of this horrible country and back once more to civilization . `` I write this from day to day , but I trust that before I come to the end of it , I may be able to say that the light shines , at last , through our clouds . We are held here with no clear means of making our escape , and bitterly we chafe against it . Yet , I can well imagine that the day may come when we may be glad that we were kept , against our will , to see something more of the wonders of this singular place , and of the creatures who inhabit it.The victory of the Indians and the annihilation of the ape-men , marked the turning point of our fortunes . From then onwards , we were in truth masters of the plateau , for the natives looked upon us with a mixture of fear and gratitude , since by our strange powers we had aided them to destroy their hereditary foe . For their own sakes they would , perhaps , be glad to see the departure of such formidable and incalculable people , but they have not themselves suggested any way by which we may reach the plains below . There had been , so far as we could follow their signs , a tunnel by which the place could be approached , the lower exit of which we had seen from below . By this , no doubt , both ape-men and Indians had at different epochs reached the top , and Maple White with his companion had taken the same way . Only the year before , however , there had been a terrific earthquake , and the upper end of the tunnel had fallen in and completely disappeared . The Indians now could only shake their heads and shrug their shoulders when we expressed by signs our desire to descend . It may be that they can not , but it may also be that they will not , help us to get away.At the end of the victorious campaign the surviving ape-folk were driven across the plateau ( their wailings were horrible ) and established in the neighborhood of the Indian caves , where they would , from now onwards , be a servile race under the eyes of their masters . It was a rude , raw , primeval version of the Jews in Babylon or the Israelites in Egypt . At night we could hear from amid the trees the long-drawn cry , as some primitive Ezekiel mourned for fallen greatness and recalled the departed glories of Ape Town . Hewers of wood and drawers of water , such were they from now onwards.We had returned across the plateau with our allies two days after the battle , and made our camp at the foot of their cliffs . They would have had us share their caves with them , but Lord John would by no means consent to it considering that to do so would put us in their power if they were treacherously disposed . We kept our independence , therefore , and had our weapons ready for any emergency , while preserving the most friendly relations . We also continually visited their caves , which were most remarkable places , though whether made by man or by Nature we have never been able to determine . They were all on the one stratum , hollowed out of some soft rock which lay between the volcanic basalt forming the ruddy cliffs above them , and the hard granite which formed their base.The openings were about eighty feet above the ground , and were led up to by long stone stairs , so narrow and steep that no large animal could mount them . Inside they were warm and dry , running in straight passages of varying length into the side of the hill , with smooth gray walls decorated with many excellent pictures done with charred sticks and representing the various animals of the plateau . If every living thing were swept from the country the future explorer would find upon the walls of these caves ample evidence of the strange fauna -- -the dinosaurs , iguanodons , and fish lizards -- -which had lived so recently upon earth.Since we had learned that the huge iguanodons were kept as tame herds by their owners , and were simply walking meat-stores , we had conceived that man , even with his primitive weapons , had established his ascendancy upon the plateau . We were soon to discover that it was not so , and that he was still there upon tolerance.It was on the third day after our forming our camp near the Indian caves that the tragedy occurred . Challenger and Summerlee had gone off together that day to the lake where some of the natives , under their direction , were engaged in harpooning specimens of the great lizards . Lord John and I had remained in our camp , while a number of the Indians were scattered about upon the grassy slope in front of the caves engaged in different ways . Suddenly there was a shrill cry of alarm , with the word `` Stoa '' resounding from a hundred tongues . From every side men , women , and children were rushing wildly for shelter , swarming up the staircases and into the caves in a mad stampede.Looking up , we could see them waving their arms from the rocks above and beckoning to us to join them in their refuge . We had both seized our magazine rifles and ran out to see what the danger could be . Suddenly from the near belt of trees there broke forth a group of twelve or fifteen Indians , running for their lives , and at their very heels two of those frightful monsters which had disturbed our camp and pursued me upon my solitary journey . In shape they were like horrible toads , and moved in a succession of springs , but in size they were of an incredible bulk , larger than the largest elephant . We had never before seen them save at night , and indeed they are nocturnal animals save when disturbed in their lairs , as these had been . We now stood amazed at the sight , for their blotched and warty skins were of a curious fish-like iridescence , and the sunlight struck them with an ever-varying rainbow bloom as they moved.We had little time to watch them , however , for in an instant they had overtaken the fugitives and were making a dire slaughter among them . Their method was to fall forward with their full weight upon each in turn , leaving him crushed and mangled , to bound on after the others . The wretched Indians screamed with terror , but were helpless , run as they would , before the relentless purpose and horrible activity of these monstrous creatures . One after another they went down , and there were not half-a-dozen surviving by the time my companion and I could come to their help . But our aid was of little avail and only involved us in the same peril . At the range of a couple of hundred yards we emptied our magazines , firing bullet after bullet into the beasts , but with no more effect than if we were pelting them with pellets of paper . Their slow reptilian natures cared nothing for wounds , and the springs of their lives , with no special brain center but scattered throughout their spinal cords , could not be tapped by any modern weapons . The most that we could do was to check their progress by distracting their attention with the flash and roar of our guns , and so to give both the natives and ourselves time to reach the steps which led to safety . But where the conical explosive bullets of the twentieth century were of no avail , the poisoned arrows of the natives , dipped in the juice of strophanthus and steeped afterwards in decayed carrion , could succeed . Such arrows were of little avail to the hunter who attacked the beast , because their action in that torpid circulation was slow , and before its powers failed it could certainly overtake and slay its assailant . But now , as the two monsters hounded us to the very foot of the stairs , a drift of darts came whistling from every chink in the cliff above them . In a minute they were feathered with them , and yet with no sign of pain they clawed and slobbered with impotent rage at the steps which would lead them to their victims , mounting clumsily up for a few yards and then sliding down again to the ground . But at last the poison worked . One of them gave a deep rumbling groan and dropped his huge squat head on to the earth . The other bounded round in an eccentric circle with shrill , wailing cries , and then lying down writhed in agony for some minutes before it also stiffened and lay still . With yells of triumph the Indians came flocking down from their caves and danced a frenzied dance of victory round the dead bodies , in mad joy that two more of the most dangerous of all their enemies had been slain . That night they cut up and removed the bodies , not to eat -- -for the poison was still active -- -but lest they should breed a pestilence . The great reptilian hearts , however , each as large as a cushion , still lay there , beating slowly and steadily , with a gentle rise and fall , in horrible independent life . It was only upon the third day that the ganglia ran down and the dreadful things were still.Some day , when I have a better desk than a meat-tin and more helpful tools than a worn stub of pencil and a last , tattered note-book , I will write some fuller account of the Accala Indians -- -of our life amongst them , and of the glimpses which we had of the strange conditions of wondrous Maple White Land . Memory , at least , will never fail me , for so long as the breath of life is in me , every hour and every action of that period will stand out as hard and clear as do the first strange happenings of our childhood . No new impressions could efface those which are so deeply cut . When the time comes I will describe that wondrous moonlit night upon the great lake when a young ichthyosaurus -- -a strange creature , half seal , half fish , to look at , with bone-covered eyes on each side of his