bunch of apes , that dropped in on you in the morning . Well , we had a horrid business afterwards . My God ! what a nightmare the whole thing is ! You remember the great bristle of sharp canes down below where we found the skeleton of the American ? Well , that is just under ape-town , and that 's the jumpin'-off place of their prisoners . I expect there 's heaps of skeletons there , if we looked for 'em . They have a sort of clear parade-ground on the top , and they make a proper ceremony about it . One by one the poor devils have to jump , and the game is to see whether they are merely dashed to pieces or whether they get skewered on the canes . They took us out to see it , and the whole tribe lined up on the edge . Four of the Indians jumped , and the canes went through 'em like knittin ' needles through a pat of butter . No wonder we found that poor Yankee 's skeleton with the canes growin ' between his ribs . It was horrible -- -but it was doocedly interestin ' too . We were all fascinated to see them take the dive , even when we thought it would be our turn next on the spring-board . `` Well , it was n't . They kept six of the Indians up for to-day -- -that 's how I understood it -- -but I fancy we were to be the star performers in the show . Challenger might get off , but Summerlee and I were in the bill . Their language is more than half signs , and it was not hard to follow them . So I thought it was time we made a break for it . I had been plottin ' it out a bit , and had one or two things clear in my mind . It was all on me , for Summerlee was useless and Challenger not much better . The only time they got together they got slangin ' because they could n't agree upon the scientific classification of these red-headed devils that had got hold of us . One said it was the dryopithecus of Java , the other said it was pithecanthropus . Madness , I call it -- -Loonies , both . But , as I say , I had thought out one or two points that were helpful . One was that these brutes could not run as fast as a man in the open . They have short , bandy legs , you see , and heavy bodies . Even Challenger could give a few yards in a hundred to the best of them , and you or I would be a perfect Shrubb . Another point was that they knew nothin ' about guns . I do n't believe they ever understood how the fellow I shot came by his hurt . If we could get at our guns there was no sayin ' what we could do . `` So I broke away early this mornin ' , gave my guard a kick in the tummy that laid him out , and sprinted for the camp . There I got you and the guns , and here we are . `` `` But the professors ! '' I cried , in consternation . `` Well , we must just go back and fetch 'em . I could n't bring 'em with me . Challenger was up the tree , and Summerlee was not fit for the effort . The only chance was to get the guns and try a rescue . Of course they may scupper them at once in revenge . I do n't think they would touch Challenger , but I would n't answer for Summerlee . But they would have had him in any case . Of that I am certain . So I have n't made matters any worse by boltin ' . But we are honor bound to go back and have them out or see it through with them . So you can make up your soul , young fellah my lad , for it will be one way or the other before evenin ' . `` I have tried to imitate here Lord Roxton 's jerky talk , his short , strong sentences , the half-humorous , half-reckless tone that ran through it all . But he was a born leader . As danger thickened his jaunty manner would increase , his speech become more racy , his cold eyes glitter into ardent life , and his Don Quixote moustache bristle with joyous excitement . His love of danger , his intense appreciation of the drama of an adventure -- -all the more intense for being held tightly in -- -his consistent view that every peril in life is a form of sport , a fierce game betwixt you and Fate , with Death as a forfeit , made him a wonderful companion at such hours . If it were not for our fears as to the fate of our companions , it would have been a positive joy to throw myself with such a man into such an affair . We were rising from our brushwood hiding-place when suddenly I felt his grip upon my arm . `` By George ! '' he whispered , `` here they come ! `` From where we lay we could look down a brown aisle , arched with green , formed by the trunks and branches . Along this a party of the ape-men were passing . They went in single file , with bent legs and rounded backs , their hands occasionally touching the ground , their heads turning to left and right as they trotted along . Their crouching gait took away from their height , but I should put them at five feet or so , with long arms and enormous chests . Many of them carried sticks , and at the distance they looked like a line of very hairy and deformed human beings . For a moment I caught this clear glimpse of them . Then they were lost among the bushes . `` Not this time , '' said Lord John , who had caught up his rifle . `` Our best chance is to lie quiet until they have given up the search . Then we shall see whether we ca n't get back to their town and hit 'em where it hurts most . Give 'em an hour and we 'll march . `` We filled in the time by opening one of our food tins and making sure of our breakfast . Lord Roxton had had nothing but some fruit since the morning before and ate like a starving man . Then , at last , our pockets bulging with cartridges and a rifle in each hand , we started off upon our mission of rescue . Before leaving it we carefully marked our little hiding-place among the brush-wood and its bearing to Fort Challenger , that we might find it again if we needed it . We slunk through the bushes in silence until we came to the very edge of the cliff , close to the old camp . There we halted , and Lord John gave me some idea of his plans . `` So long as we are among the thick trees these swine are our masters , '' said he . `` They can see us and we can not see them . But in the open it is different . There we can move faster than they . So we must stick to the open all we can . The edge of the plateau has fewer large trees than further inland . So that 's our line of advance . Go slowly , keep your eyes open and your rifle ready . Above all , never let them get you prisoner while there is a cartridge left -- -that 's my last word to you , young fellah . `` When we reached the edge of the cliff I looked over and saw our good old black Zambo sitting smoking on a rock below us . I would have given a great deal to have hailed him and told him how we were placed , but it was too dangerous , lest we should be heard . The woods seemed to be full of the ape-men ; again and again we heard their curious clicking chatter . At such times we plunged into the nearest clump of bushes and lay still until the sound had passed away . Our advance , therefore , was very slow , and two hours at least must have passed before I saw by Lord John 's cautious movements that we must be close to our destination . He motioned to me to lie still , and he crawled forward himself . In a minute he was back again , his face quivering with eagerness. '' Come ! '' said he . `` Come quick ! I hope to the Lord we are not too late already ! `` I found myself shaking with nervous excitement as I scrambled forward and lay down beside him , looking out through the bushes at a clearing which stretched before us.It was a sight which I shall never forget until my dying day -- -so weird , so impossible , that I do not know how I am to make you realize it , or how in a few years I shall bring myself to believe in it if I live to sit once more on a lounge in the Savage Club and look out on the drab solidity of the Embankment . I know that it will seem then to be some wild nightmare , some delirium of fever . Yet I will set it down now , while it is still fresh in my memory , and one at least , the man who lay in the damp grasses by my side , will know if I have lied.A wide , open space lay before us -- -some hundreds of yards across -- -all green turf and low bracken growing to the very edge of the cliff . Round this clearing there was a semi-circle of trees with curious huts built of foliage piled one above the other among the branches . A rookery , with every nest a little house , would best convey the idea . The openings of these huts and the branches of the trees were thronged with a dense mob of ape-people , whom from their size I took to be the females and infants of the tribe . They formed the background of the picture , and were all looking out with eager interest at the same scene which fascinated and bewildered us.In the open , and near the edge of the cliff , there had assembled a crowd of some hundred of these shaggy , red-haired creatures , many of them of immense size , and all of them horrible to look upon . There was a certain discipline among them , for none of them attempted to break the line which had been formed . In front there stood a small group of Indians -- -little , clean-limbed , red fellows , whose skins glowed like polished bronze in the strong sunlight . A tall , thin white man was standing beside them , his head bowed , his arms folded , his whole attitude expressive of his horror and dejection . There was no mistaking the angular form of Professor Summerlee.In front of and around this dejected group of prisoners were several ape-men , who watched them closely