do ? `` `` There is a great oak near here , and I think that Bertrand will bring the horses there , for it is an old hunting-tryst of ours . Then hey for home , and no more hawking to-day ! A twelve-mile gallop will dry feet and skirt . `` `` But your father ? `` `` Not one word shall I tell him . You do not know him ; but I can tell you he is not a man to disobey as I have disobeyed him . He would avenge me , it is true , but it is not to him that I shall look for vengeance . Some day , perchance , in joust or in tourney , knight may wish to wear my colors , and then I shall tell him that if he does indeed crave my favor there is wrong unredressed , and the wronger the Socman of Minstead . So my knight shall find a venture such as bold knights love , and my debt shall be paid , and my father none the wiser , and one rogue the less in the world . Say , is not that a brave plan ? `` `` Nay , lady , it is a thought which is unworthy of you . How can such as you speak of violence and of vengeance . Are none to be gentle and kind , none to be piteous and forgiving ? Alas ! it is a hard , cruel world , and I would that I had never left my abbey cell . To hear such words from your lips is as though I heard an angel of grace preaching the devil 's own creed . `` She started from him as a young colt who first feels the bit . `` Gramercy for your rede , young sir ! '' she said , with a little curtsey . `` As I understand your words , you are grieved that you ever met me , and look upon me as a preaching devil . Why , my father is a bitter man when he is wroth , but hath never called me such a name as that . It may be his right and duty , but certes it is none of thine . So it would be best , since you think so lowly of me , that you should take this path to the left while I keep on upon this one ; for it is clear that I can be no fit companion for you . '' So saying , with downcast lids and a dignity which was somewhat marred by her bedraggled skirt , she swept off down the muddy track , leaving Alleyne standing staring ruefully after her . He waited in vain for some backward glance or sign of relenting , but she walked on with a rigid neck until her dress was only a white flutter among the leaves . Then , with a sunken head and a heavy heart , he plodded wearily down the other path , wroth with himself for the rude and uncouth tongue which had given offence where so little was intended.He had gone some way , lost in doubt and in self-reproach , his mind all tremulous with a thousand new-found thoughts and fears and wonderments , when of a sudden there was a light rustle of the leaves behind him , and , glancing round , there was this graceful , swift-footed creature , treading in his very shadow , with her proud head bowed , even as his was -- -the picture of humility and repentance . `` I shall not vex you , nor even speak , '' she said ; `` but I would fain keep with you while we are in the wood . `` `` Nay , you can not vex me , '' he answered , all warm again at the very sight of her . `` It was my rough words which vexed you ; but I have been thrown among men all my life , and indeed , with all the will , I scarce know how to temper my speech to a lady 's ear . `` `` Then unsay it , '' cried she quickly ; `` say that I was right to wish to have vengeance on the Socman . `` `` Nay , I can not do that , '' he answered gravely . `` Then who is ungentle and unkind now ? '' she cried in triumph . `` How stern and cold you are for one so young ! Art surely no mere clerk , but bishop or cardinal at the least . Shouldst have crozier for staff and mitre for cap . Well , well , for your sake I will forgive the Socman and take vengeance on none but on my own wilful self who must needs run into danger 's path . So will that please you , sir ? `` `` There spoke your true self , '' said he ; `` and you will find more pleasure in such forgiveness than in any vengeance . `` She shook her head , as if by no means assured of it , and then with a sudden little cry , which had more of surprise than of joy in it , `` Here is Bertrand with the horses ! `` Down the glade there came a little green-clad page with laughing eyes , and long curls floating behind him . He sat perched on a high bay horse , and held on to the bridle of a spirited black palfrey , the hides of both glistening from a long run . `` I have sought you everywhere , dear Lady Maude , '' said he in a piping voice , springing down from his horse and holding the stirrup . `` Troubadour galloped as far as Holmhill ere I could catch him . I trust that you have had no hurt or scath ? '' He shot a questioning glance at Alleyne as he spoke . `` No , Bertrand , '' said she , `` thanks to this courteous stranger . And now , sir , '' she continued , springing into her saddle , `` it is not fit that I leave you without a word more . Clerk or no , you have acted this day as becomes a true knight . King Arthur and all his table could not have done more . It may be that , as some small return , my father or his kin may have power to advance your interest . He is not rich , but he is honored and hath great friends . Tell me what is your purpose , and see if he may not aid it. '' '' Alas ! lady , I have now no purpose . I have but two friends in the world , and they have gone to Christchurch , where it is likely I shall join them . `` `` And where is Christchurch ? `` `` At the castle which is held by the brave knight , Sir Nigel Loring , constable to the Earl of Salisbury . `` To his surprise she burst out a-laughing , and , spurring her palfrey , dashed off down the glade , with her page riding behind her . Not one word did she say , but as she vanished amid the trees she half turned in her saddle and waved a last greeting . Long time he stood , half hoping that she might again come back to him ; but the thud of the hoofs had died away , and there was no sound in all the woods but the gentle rustle and dropping of the leaves . At last he turned away and made his way back to the high-road -- -another person from the light-hearted boy who had left it a short three hours before.If he might not return to Beaulieu within the year , and if his brother 's dogs were to be set upon him if he showed face upon Minstead land , then indeed he was adrift upon earth . North , south , east , and west -- -he might turn where he would , but all was equally chill and cheerless . The Abbot had rolled ten silver crowns in a lettuce-leaf and hid them away in the bottom of his scrip , but that would be a sorry support for twelve long months . In all the darkness there was but the one bright spot of the sturdy comrades whom he had left that morning ; if he could find them again all would be well . The afternoon was not very advanced , for all that had befallen him . When a man is afoot at cock-crow much may be done in the day . If he walked fast he might yet overtake his friends ere they reached their destination . He pushed on therefore , now walking and now running . As he journeyed he bit into a crust which remained from his Beaulieu bread , and he washed it down by a draught from a woodland stream.It was no easy or light thing to journey through this great forest , which was some twenty miles from east to west and a good sixteen from Bramshaw Woods in the north to Lymington in the south . Alleyne , however , had the good fortune to fall in with a woodman , axe upon shoulder , trudging along in the very direction that he wished to go . With his guidance he passed the fringe of Bolderwood Walk , famous for old ash and yew , through Mark Ash with its giant beech-trees , and on through the Knightwood groves , where the giant oak was already a great tree , but only one of many comely brothers . They plodded along together , the woodman and Alleyne , with little talk on either side , for their thoughts were as far asunder as the poles . The peasant 's gossip had been of the hunt , of the bracken , of the gray-headed kites that had nested in Wood Fidley , and of the great catch of herring brought back by the boats of Pitt 's Deep . The clerk 's mind was on his brother , on his future -- -above all on this strange , fierce , melting , beautiful woman who had broken so suddenly into his life , and as suddenly passed out of it again . Sodistraitwas he and so random his answers , that the woodman took to whistling , and soon branched off upon the track to Burley , leaving Alleyne upon the main Christchurch road.Down this he pushed as fast as he might , hoping at every turn and rise to catch sight of his companions of the morning . From Vinney Ridge to Rhinefield Walk the woods grow thick and dense up to the very edges of the track , but beyond the country opens up into broad dun-colored moors , flecked with clumps of trees , and topping each other in long , low curves up to the dark lines of forest in the furthest distance . Clouds of insects danced and buzzed in the golden autumn light , and the air was full of the piping of the song-birds . Long , glinting dragonflies shot across the path , or hung tremulous with gauzy wings and gleaming bodies . Once a white-necked sea eagle soared screaming high over the traveller 's head , and again a flock of brown bustards popped up from among the bracken , and blundered away in their clumsy fashion , half running , half flying , with strident