next of kin because he dug up the Neolithic skull in the barrow on Long Down . He helps to keep our lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic relief where it is badly needed.And now , having brought you up to date in the escaped convict , the Stapletons , Dr. Mortimer , and Frankland , of Lafter Hall , let me end on that which is most important and tell you more about the Barrymores , and especially about the surprising development of last night.First of all about the test telegram , which you sent from London in order to make sure that Barrymore was really here . I have already explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was worthless and that we have no proof one way or the other . I told Sir Henry how the matter stood , and he at once , in his downright fashion , had Barrymore up and asked him whether he had received the telegram himself . Barrymore said that he had . `` Did the boy deliver it into your own hands ? '' asked Sir Henry.Barrymore looked surprised , and considered for a little time . `` No , '' said he , `` I was in the box-room at the time , and my wife brought it up to me . `` `` Did you answer it yourself ? `` `` No ; I told my wife what to answer and she went down to write it . `` In the evening he recurred to the subject of his own accord . `` I could not quite understand the object of your questions this morning , Sir Henry , '' said he . `` I trust that they do not mean that I have done anything to forfeit your confidence ? `` Sir Henry had to assure him that it was not so and pacify him by giving him a considerable part of his old wardrobe , the London outfit having now all arrived.Mrs . Barrymore is of interest to me . She is a heavy , solid person , very limited , intensely respectable , and inclined to be puritanical . You could hardly conceive a less emotional subject . Yet I have told you how , on the first night here , I heard her sobbing bitterly , and since then I have more than once observed traces of tears upon her face . Some deep sorrow gnaws ever at her heart . Sometimes I wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts her , and sometimes I suspect Barrymore of being a domestic tyrant . I have always felt that there was something singular and questionable in this man 's character , but the adventure of last night brings all my suspicions to a head.And yet it may seem a small matter in itself . You are aware that I am not a very sound sleeper , and since I have been on guard in this house my slumbers have been lighter than ever . Last night , about two in the morning , I was aroused by a stealthy step passing my room . I rose , opened my door , and peeped out . A long black shadow was trailing down the corridor . It was thrown by a man who walked softly down the passage with a candle held in his hand . He was in shirt and trousers , with no covering to his feet . I could merely see the outline , but his height told me that it was Barrymore . He walked very slowly and circumspectly , and there was something indescribably guilty and furtive in his whole appearance.I have told you that the corridor is broken by the balcony which runs round the hall , but that it is resumed upon the farther side . I waited until he had passed out of sight and then I followed him . When I came round the balcony he had reached the end of the farther corridor , and I could see from the glimmer of light through an open door that he had entered one of the rooms . Now , all these rooms are unfurnished and unoccupied so that his expedition became more mysterious than ever . The light shone steadily as if he were standing motionless . I crept down the passage as noiselessly as I could and peeped round the corner of the door.Barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held against the glass . His profile was half turned towards me , and his face seemed to be rigid with expectation as he stared out into the blackness of the moor . For some minutes he stood watching intently . Then he gave a deep groan and with an impatient gesture he put out the light . Instantly I made my way back to my room , and very shortly came the stealthy steps passing once more upon their return journey . Long afterwards when I had fallen into a light sleep I heard a key turn somewhere in a lock , but I could not tell whence the sound came . What it all means I can not guess , but there is some secret business going on in this house of gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom of . I do not trouble you with my theories , for you asked me to furnish you only with facts . I have had a long talk with Sir Henry this morning , and we have made a plan of campaign founded upon my observations of last night . I will not speak about it just now , but it should make my next report interesting reading.Baskerville Hall , Oct. 15th . MY DEAR HOLMES : If I was compelled to leave you without much news during the early days of my mission you must acknowledge that I am making up for lost time , and that events are now crowding thick and fast upon us . In my last report I ended upon my top note with Barrymore at the window , and now I have quite a budget already which will , unless I am much mistaken , considerably surprise you . Things have taken a turn which I could not have anticipated . In some ways they have within the last forty-eight hours become much clearer and in some ways they have become more complicated . But I will tell you all and you shall judge for yourself.Before breakfast on the morning following my adventure I went down the corridor and examined the room in which Barrymore had been on the night before . The western window through which he had stared so intently has , I noticed , one peculiarity above all other windows in the house -- -it commands the nearest outlook on to the moor . There is an opening between two trees which enables one from this point of view to look right down upon it , while from all the other windows it is only a distant glimpse which can be obtained . It follows , therefore , that Barrymore , since only this window would serve the purpose , must have been looking out for something or somebody upon the moor . The night was very dark , so that I can hardly imagine how he could have hoped to see anyone . It had struck me that it was possible that some love intrigue was on foot . That would have accounted for his stealthy movements and also for the uneasiness of his wife . The man is a striking-looking fellow , very well equipped to steal the heart of a country girl , so that this theory seemed to have something to support it . That opening of the door which I had heard after I had returned to my room might mean that he had gone out to keep some clandestine appointment . So I reasoned with myself in the morning , and I tell you the direction of my suspicions , however much the result may have shown that they were unfounded.But whatever the true explanation of Barrymore 's movements might be , I felt that the responsibility of keeping them to myself until I could explain them was more than I could bear . I had an interview with the baronet in his study after breakfast , and I told him all that I had seen . He was less surprised than I had expected . `` I knew that Barrymore walked about nights , and I had a mind to speak to him about it , '' said he . `` Two or three times I have heard his steps in the passage , coming and going , just about the hour you name . `` `` Perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular window , '' I suggested . `` Perhaps he does . If so , we should be able to shadow him and see what it is that he is after . I wonder what your friend Holmes would do if he were here . `` `` I believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest , '' said I . `` He would follow Barrymore and see what he did . `` `` Then we shall do it together . `` `` But surely he would hear us . `` `` The man is rather deaf , and in any case we must take our chance of that . We 'll sit up in my room tonight and wait until he passes . '' Sir Henry rubbed his hands with pleasure , and it was evident that he hailed the adventure as a relief to his somewhat quiet life upon the moor.The baronet has been in communication with the architect who prepared the plans for Sir Charles , and with a contractor from London , so that we may expect great changes to begin here soon . There have been decorators and furnishers up from Plymouth , and it is evident that our friend has large ideas and means to spare no pains or expense to restore the grandeur of his family . When the house is renovated and refurnished , all that he will need will be a wife to make it complete . Between ourselves there are pretty clear signs that this will not be wanting if the lady is willing , for I have seldom seen a man more infatuated with a woman than he is with our beautiful neighbour , Miss Stapleton . And yet the course of true love does not run quite as smoothly as one would under the circumstances expect . Today , for example , its surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple , which has caused our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance.After the conversation which I have quoted about Barrymore , Sir Henry put on his hat and prepared to go out . As a matter of course I did the same . `` What , are you coming , Watson ? '' he asked , looking at me in a curious way . `` That depends on whether you are going on the moor , '' said I . `` Yes , I am . `` `` Well , you know what my instructions are . I am sorry to intrude , but you heard how earnestly Holmes insisted that I should not leave you , and especially that you should not go alone upon the moor . `` Sir Henry put his hand upon my shoulder with a pleasant smile . `` My dear fellow , '' said he , `` Holmes , with all his wisdom , did not foresee some