man , and yet what does it do but glance upon a rib , and go clean round and out at the back , without so much as penetrating what you medicos call the pleura . Did ever you hear of such a thing ? `` `` You were certainly born under a lucky star , '' I observed , with a smile . `` That 's a matter of opinion , '' he answered , shaking his head . `` Death has no terrors for me , if it will but come in some familiar form , but I confess that the anticipation of some strange , some preternatural form of death is very terrible and unnerving . `` `` You mean , '' said I , rather puzzled at his remark , `` that you would prefer a natural death to a death by violence ? `` `` No , I do n't mean that exactly , '' he answered . `` I am too familiar with cold steel and lead to be afraid of either . Do you know anything about odyllic force , doctor ? `` `` No , I do not , '' I replied , glancing sharply at him to see if there were any signs of his delirium returning . His expression was intelligent , however , and the feverish flush had faded from his cheeks . `` Ah , you Western scientific men are very much behind the day in some things , '' he remarked . `` In all that is material and conducive to the comfort of the body you are pre-eminent , but in what concerns the subtle forces of Nature and the latent powers of the human spirit your best men are centuries behind the humblest coolies of India . Countless generations of beef-eating , comfort loving ancestors have given our animal instincts the command over our spiritual ones . The body , which should have been a mere tool for the use of the soul , has now become a degrading prison in which it is confined . The Oriental soul and body are not so welded together as ours are , and there is far less wrench when they part in death . `` `` They do not appear to derive much benefit from this peculiarity in their organisation , '' I remarked incredulously . `` Merely the benefit of superior knowledge , '' the general answered . `` If you were to go to India , probably the very first thing you would see in the way of amusement would be a native doing what is called the mango trick . Of course you have heard or read of it . The fellow plants a mango seed , and makes passes over it until it sprouts and bears leaves and fruit -- -all in the space of half-an-hour . It is not really a trick -- -it is a power . These men know more than your Tyndalls or Huxleys do about Nature 's processes , and they can accelerate or retard her workings by subtle means of which we have no conception . These low-caste conjurers -- -as they are called -- -are mere vulgar dabblers , but the men who have trod the higher path are as far superior to us in knowledge as we are to the Hottentots or Patagonians . `` `` You speak as if you were well acquainted with them , '' I remarked . `` To my cost , I am , '' he answered . `` I have been brought in contact with them in a way in which I trust no other poor chap ever will be . But , really , as regards odyllic force , you ought to know something of it , for it has a great future before it in your profession . You should read Reichenbach 's 'Researches on Magnetism and Vital Force , ' and Gregory 's 'Letters on Animal Magnetism . ' These , supplemented by the twenty-seven Aphorisms of Mesmer , and the works of Dr. Justinus Kerner , of Weinsberg , would enlarge your ideas . `` I did not particularly relish having a course of reading prescribed for me on a subject connected with my own profession , so I made no comment , but rose to take my departure . Before doing so I felt his pulse once more , and found that the fever had entirely left him in the sudden , unaccountable fashion which is peculiar to these malarious types of disease.I turned my face towards him to congratulate him upon his improvement , and stretched out my hand at the same time to pick my gloves from the table , with the result that I raised not only my own property , but also the linen cloth which was arranged over some object in the centre.I might not have noticed what I had done had I not seen an angry look upon the invalid 's face and heard him utter an impatient exclamation . I at once turned , and replaced the cloth so promptly that I should have been unable to say what was underneath it , beyond having a general impression that it looked like a bride-cake . `` All right , doctor , '' the general said good-humouredly , perceiving how entirely accidental the incident was . `` There is no reason why you should not see it , '' and stretching out his hand , he pulled away the linen covering for the second time.I then perceived that what I had taken for a bride-cake was really an admirably executed model of a lofty range of mountains , whose snow-clad peaks were not unlike the familiar sugar pinnacles and minarets . `` These are the Himalayas , or at least the Surinam branch of them , '' he remarked , `` showing the principal passes between India and Afghanistan . It is an excellent model . This ground has a special interest for me , because it is the scene of my first campaign . There is the pass opposite Kalabagh and the Thul valley , where I was engaged during the summer of 1841 in protecting the convoys and keeping the Afridis in order . It was n't a sinecure , I promise you . `` `` And this , '' said I , indicating a blood-red spot which had been marked on one side of the pass which he had pointed out -- - '' this is the scene of some fight in which you were engaged . `` `` Yes , we had a skirmish there , '' he answered , leaning forward and looking at the red mark . `` We were attacked by -- - '' At this moment he fell back upon his pillow as if he had been shot , while the same look of horror came over his face which I had observed when I first entered the room . At the same instant there came , apparently from the air immediately above his bed , a sharp , ringing , tinkling sound , which I can only compare with the noise made by a bicycle alarm , though it differed from this in having a distinctly throbbing character . I have never , before or since , heard any sound which could be confounded with it.I stared round in astonishment , wondering where it could have come from , but without perceiving anything to which it could be ascribed . `` It 's all right , doctor , '' the general said with a ghastly smile . `` It 's only my private gong . Perhaps you had better step downstairs and write my prescription in the dining-room . `` He was evidently anxious to get rid of me , so I was forced to take my departure , though I would gladly have stayed a little longer , in the hope of learning something as to the origin of the mysterious sound.I drove away from the house with the full determination of calling again upon my interesting patient , and endeavouring to elicit some further particulars as to his past life and his present circumstances . I was destined , however , to be disappointed , for I received that very evening a note from the general himself , enclosing a handsome fee for my single visit , and informing me that my treatment had done him so much good that he considered himself to be convalescent , and would not trouble me to see him again.This was the last and only communication which I ever received from the tenant of Cloomber.I have been asked frequently by neighbours and others who were interested in the matter whether he gave me the impression of insanity . To this I must unhesitatingly answer in the negative . On the contrary , his remarks gave me the idea of a man who had both read and thought deeply.I observed , however , during our single interview , that his reflexes were feeble , his arcus senilis well marked , and his arteries atheromatous -- -all signs that his constitution was in an unsatisfactory condition , and that a sudden crisis might be apprehended.Having thrown this side-light upon my narrative , I can now resume the statement of my own personal experiences . These I had brought down , as the reader will doubtless remember , to the date of the arrival of the savage-looking wanderer who called himself Corporal Rufus Smith . This incident occurred about the beginning of the month of October , and I find upon a comparison of dates that Dr. Easterling 's visit to Cloomber preceded it by three weeks or more.During all this time I was in sore distress of mind , for I had never seen anything either of Gabriel or of her brother since the interview in which the general had discovered the communication which was kept up between us . I had no doubt that some sort of restraint had been placed upon them ; and the thought that we had brought trouble on their heads was a bitter one both to my sister and myself.Our anxiety , however , was considerably mitigated by the receipt , a couple of days after my last talk with the general , of a note from Mordaunt Heatherstone . This was brought us by a little , ragged urchin , the son of one of the fishermen , who informed us that it had been handed to him at the avenue gate by an old woman -- -who , I expect , must have been the Cloomber cook . `` MY DEAREST FRIENDS , '' it ran , `` Gabriel and I have grieved to think how concerned you must be at having neither heard from nor seen us . The fact is that we are compelled to remain in the house . And this compulsion is not physical but moral . `` Our poor father , who gets more and more nervous every day , has entreated us to promise him that we will not go out until after the fifth of October , and to allay his fears we have given him the desired pledge . On the other hand , he has promised us that after the fifth -- -that is , in less than a week -- -we shall be as free as air to come or go as we please , so we have something to look forward to . `` Gabriel says that she has explained to you that the governor is always a changed man after this particular date , on which his fears reach a crisis . He apparently has more reason than usual this year to anticipate that trouble is brewing for this unfortunate family , for