served . `` Let them be supplied with all that is heavy and weighty in the ship , '' said Sir Nigel . `` Then we must send them up Sir Oliver Buttesthorn , '' quoth Ford.The knight looked at him with a face which struck the smile from his lips . `` No squire of mine , '' he said , `` shall ever make jest of a belted knight . And yet , '' he added , his eyes softening , `` I know that it is but a boy 's mirth , with no sting in it . Yet I should ill do my part towards your father if I did not teach you to curb your tongue-play . `` `` They will lay us aboard on either quarter , my lord , '' cried the master . `` See how they stretch out from each other ! The Norman hath a mangonel or a trabuch upon the forecastle . See , they bend to the levers ! They are about to loose it . `` `` Aylward , '' cried the knight , `` pick your three trustiest archers , and see if you can not do something to hinder their aim . Methinks they are within long arrow flight . `` `` Seventeen score paces , '' said the archer , running his eye backwards and forwards . `` By my ten finger-bones ! it would be a strange thing if we could not notch a mark at that distance . Here , Watkin of Sowley , Arnold , Long Williams , let us show the rogues that they have English bowmen to deal with . `` The three archers named stood at the further end of the poop , balancing themselves with feet widely spread and bows drawn , until the heads of the cloth-yard arrows were level with the centre of the stave . `` You are the surer , Watkin , '' said Aylward , standing by them with shaft upon string . `` Do you take the rogue with the red coif . You two bring down the man with the head-piece , and I will hold myself ready if you miss . Ma foi ! they are about to loose her . Shoot , mes garcons , or you will be too late . `` The throng of pirates had cleared away from the great wooden catapult , leaving two of their number to discharge it . One in a scarlet cap bent over it , steadying the jagged rock which was balanced on the spoon-shaped end of the long wooden lever . The other held the loop of the rope which would release the catch and send the unwieldy missile hurtling through the air . So for an instant they stood , showing hard and clear against the white sail behind them . The next , redcap had fallen across the stone with an arrow between his ribs ; and the other , struck in the leg and in the throat , was writhing and spluttering upon the ground . As he toppled backwards he had loosed the spring , and the huge beam of wood , swinging round with tremendous force , cast the corpse of his comrade so close to the English ship that its mangled and distorted limbs grazed their very stern . As to the stone , it glanced off obliquely and fell midway between the vessels . A roar of cheering and of laughter broke from the rough archers and seamen at the sight , answered by a yell of rage from their pursuers . `` Lie low , mes enfants , '' cried Aylward , motioning with his left hand . `` They will learn wisdom . They are bringing forward shield and mantlet . We shall have some pebbles about our ears ere long . `` The three vessels had been sweeping swiftly westwards , the cog still well to the front , although the galleys were slowly drawing in upon either quarter . To the left was a hard skyline unbroken by a sail . The island already lay like a cloud behind them , while right in front was St. Alban 's Head , with Portland looming mistily in the farthest distance . Alleyne stood by the tiller , looking backwards , the fresh wind full in his teeth , the crisp winter air tingling on his face and blowing his yellow curls from under his bassinet . His cheeks were flushed and his eyes shining , for the blood of a hundred fighting Saxon ancestors was beginning to stir in his veins . `` What was that ? '' he asked , as a hissing , sharp-drawn voice seemed to whisper in his ear . The steersman smiled , and pointed with his foot to where a short heavy cross-bow quarrel stuck quivering in the boards . At the same instant the man stumbled forward upon his knees , and lay lifeless upon the deck , a blood-stained feather jutting out from his back . As Alleyne stooped to raise him , the air seemed to be alive with the sharp zip-zip of the bolts , and he could hear them pattering on the deck like apples at a tree-shaking . `` Raise two more mantlets by the poop-lanthorn , '' said Sir Nigel quietly . `` And another man to the tiller , '' cried the master-shipman . `` Keep them in play , Aylward , with ten of your men , '' the knight continued . `` And let ten of Sir Oliver 's bowmen do as much for the Genoese . I have no mind as yet to show them how much they have to fear from us . `` Ten picked shots under Aylward stood in line across the broad deck , and it was a lesson to the young squires who had seen nothing of war to note how orderly and how cool were these old soldiers , how quick the command , and how prompt the carrying out , ten moving like one . Their comrades crouched beneath the bulwarks , with many a rough jest and many a scrap of criticism or advice . `` Higher , Wat , higher ! '' `` Put thy body into it , Will ! '' `` Forget not the wind , Hal ! '' So ran the muttered chorus , while high above it rose the sharp twanging of the strings , the hiss of the shafts , and the short `` Draw your arrow ! Nick your arrow ! Shoot wholly together ! '' from the master-bowman.And now both mangonels were at work from the galleys , but so covered and protected that , save at the moment of discharge , no glimpse could be caught of them . A huge brown rock from the Genoese sang over their heads , and plunged sullenly into the slope of a wave . Another from the Norman whizzed into the waist , broke the back of a horse , and crashed its way through the side of the vessel . Two others , flying together , tore a great gap in the St. Christopher upon the sail , and brushed three of Sir Oliver 's men-at-arms from the forecastle . The master-shipman looked at the knight with a troubled face . `` They keep their distance from us , '' said he . `` Our archery is over-good , and they will not close . What defence can we make against the stones ? `` `` I think I may trick them , '' the knight answered cheerfully , and passed his order to the archers . Instantly five of them threw up their hands and fell prostrate upon the deck . One had already been slain by a bolt , so that there were but four upon their feet . `` That should give them heart , '' said Sir Nigel , eyeing the galleys , which crept along on either side , with a slow , measured swing of their great oars , the water swirling and foaming under their sharp stems . `` They still hold aloof , '' cried Hawtayne . `` Then down with two more , '' shouted their leader . `` That will do . Ma foi ! but they come to our lure like chicks to the fowler . To your arms , men ! The pennon behind me , and the squires round the pennon . Stand fast with the anchors in the waist , and be ready for a cast . Now blow out the trumpets , and may God 's benison be with the honest men ! `` As he spoke a roar of voices and a roll of drums came from either galley , and the water was lashed into spray by the hurried beat of a hundred oars . Down they swooped , one on the right , one on the left , the sides and shrouds black with men and bristling with weapons . In heavy clusters they hung upon the forecastle all ready for a spring -- -faces white , faces brown , faces yellow , and faces black , fair Norsemen , swarthy Italians , fierce rovers from the Levant , and fiery Moors from the Barbary States , of all hues and countries , and marked solely by the common stamp of a wild-beast ferocity . Rasping up on either side , with oars trailing to save them from snapping , they poured in a living torrent with horrid yell and shrill whoop upon the defenceless merchantman.But wilder yet was the cry , and shriller still the scream , when there rose up from the shadow of those silent bulwarks the long lines of the English bowmen , and the arrows whizzed in a deadly sleet among the unprepared masses upon the pirate decks . From the higher sides of the cog the bowmen could shoot straight down , at a range which was so short as to enable a cloth-yard shaft to pierce through mail-coats or to transfix a shield , though it were an inch thick of toughened wood . One moment Alleyne saw the galley 's poop crowded with rushing figures , waving arms , exultant faces ; the next it was a blood-smeared shambles , with bodies piled three deep upon each other , the living cowering behind the dead to shelter themselves from that sudden storm-blast of death . On either side the seamen whom Sir Nigel had chosen for the purpose had cast their anchors over the side of the galleys , so that the three vessels , locked in an iron grip , lurched heavily forward upon the swell.And now set in a fell and fierce fight , one of a thousand of which no chronicler has spoken and no poet sung . Through all the centuries and over all those southern waters nameless men have fought in nameless places , their sole monuments a protected coast and an unravaged country-side.Fore and aft the archers had cleared the galleys ' decks , but from either side the rovers had poured down into the waist , where the seamen and bowmen were pushed back and so mingled with their foes that it was impossible for their comrades above to draw string to help them . It was a wild chaos where axe and sword rose and fell , while Englishman , Norman , and Italian staggered and reeled on a deck which was cumbered with bodies and slippery with blood . The clang of blows , the cries of the stricken , the short , deep shout of the islanders , and the fierce whoops of the rovers , rose together in a deafening tumult , while the breath of the panting men