king 's messengers , and by the aid of his sister 's gold he had managed that their journey should not be a very rapid one . On reaching the branch road he had ordered the coachman to drive some little distance along it , and had tethered all the horses to a fence under his charge . He had then stationed one of the band as a sentinel some distance up the main highway to flash a light when the two courtiers were approaching . A stout cord had been fastened eighteen inches from the ground to the trunk of a wayside sapling , and on receiving the signal the other end was tied to a gate-post upon the further side . The two cavaliers could not possibly see it , coming as it did at the very curve of the road , and as a consequence their horses fell heavily to the ground , and brought them down with them . In an instant the dozen ruffians who had lurked in the shadow of the trees sprang out upon them , sword in hand ; but there was no movement from either of their victims . De Catinat lay breathing heavily , one leg under his horse 's neck , and the blood trickling in a thin stream down his pale face , and falling , drop by drop , on to his silver shoulder-straps . Amos Green was unwounded , but his injured girth had given way in the fall , and he had been hurled from his horse on to the hard road with a violence which had driven every particle of breath from his body.Monsieur de Vivonne lit a lantern , and flashed it upon the faces of the two unconscious men . `` This is a bad business , Major Despard , '' said he to the man next him . `` I believe that they are both gone. '' '' Tut ! tut ! By my soul , men did not die like that when I was young ! '' answered the other , leaning forward his fierce grizzled face into the light of the lantern . `` I 've been cast from my horse as often as there are tags to my doublet , but , save for the snap of a bone or two , I never had any harm from it . Pass your rapier under the third rib of the horses , De la Touche ; they will never be fit to set hoof to ground again . '' Two sobbing gasps and the thud of their straining necks falling back to earth told that the two steeds had come to the end of their troubles . `` Where is Latour ? '' asked Monsieur de Vivonne . `` Achille Latour has studied medicine at Montpellier . Where is he ? `` `` Here I am , your excellency . It is not for me to boast , but I am as handy a man with a lancet as with a rapier , and it was an evil day for some sick folk when I first took to buff and bandolier . Which would you have me look to ? `` `` This one in the road . `` The trooper bent over Amos Green . `` He is not long for this world , '' said he . `` I can tell it by the catch of his breath . `` `` And what is his injury ? `` `` A subluxation of the epigastrium . Ah , the words of learning will still come to my tongue , but it is hard to put into common terms . Methinks that it were well for me to pass my dagger through his throat , for his end is very near . `` `` Not for your life ! '' cried the leader . `` If he die without wound , they can not lay it to our charge . Turn now to the other . `` The man bent over De Catinat , and placed his hand upon his heart . As he did so the soldier heaved a long sigh , opened his eyes , and gazed about him with the face of one who knows neither where he is nor how he came there . De Vivonne , who had drawn his hat down over his eyes , and muffled the lower part of his face in his mantle , took out his flask , and poured a little of the contents down the injured man 's throat . In an instant a dash of colour had come back into the guardsman 's bloodless cheeks , and the light of memory into his eyes . He struggled up on to his feet , and strove furiously to push away those who held him . But his head still swam , and he could scarce hold himself erect . `` I must to Paris ! '' he gasped ; `` I must to Paris ! It is the king 's mission . You stop me at your peril ! `` `` He has no hurt save a scratch , '' said the ex-doctor . `` Then hold him fast . And first carry the dying man to the carriage . `` The lantern threw but a small ring of yellow light , so that when it had been carried over to De Catinat , Amos Green was left lying in the shadow . Now they brought the light back to where the young man lay . But there was no sign of him . He was gone.For a moment the little group of ruffians stood staring , the light of their lantern streaming up upon their plumed hats , their fierce eyes , and savage faces . Then a burst of oaths broke from them , and De Vivonne caught the false doctor by the throat , and hurling him down , would have choked him upon the spot , had the others not dragged them apart . `` You lying dog ! '' he cried . `` Is this your skill ? The man has fled , and we are ruined ! `` `` He has done it in his death-struggle , '' gasped the other hoarsely , sitting up and rubbing his throat . `` I tell you that he wasin extremis . He can not be far off . `` `` That is true . He can not be far off , '' cried De Vivonne . `` He has neither horse nor arms . You , Despard and Raymond de Carnac , guard the other , that he play us no trick . Do you , Latour , and you , Turberville , ride down the road , and wait by the south gate . If he enter Paris at all , he must come in that way . If you get him , tie him before you on your horse , and bring him to the rendezvous . In any case , it matters little , for he is a stranger , this fellow , and only here by chance . Now lead the other to the carriage , and we shall get away before an alarm is given . `` The two horsemen rode off in pursuit of the fugitive , and De Catinat , still struggling desperately to escape , was dragged down the St. Germain road and thrust into the carriage , which had waited at some distance while these incidents were being enacted . Three of the horsemen rode ahead , the coachman was curtly ordered to follow them , and De Vivonne , having despatched one of the band with a note to his sister , followed after the coach with the remainder of his desperadoes.The unfortunate guardsman had now entirely recovered his senses , and found himself with a strap round his ankles , and another round his wrists , a captive inside a moving prison which lumbered heavily along the country road . He had been stunned by the shock of his fall , and his leg was badly bruised by the weight of his horse ; but the cut on his forehead was a mere trifle , and the bleeding had already ceased . His mind , however , pained him more than his body . He sank his head into his pinioned hands , and stamped madly with his feet , rocking himself to and fro in his despair . What a fool , a treble fool , he had been ! He , an old soldier , who had seen something of war , to walk with open eyes into such a trap ! The king had chosen him of all men , as a trusty messenger , and yet he had failed him -- -and failed him so ignominiously , without shot fired or sword drawn . He was warned , too , warned by a young man who knew nothing of court intrigue , and who was guided only by the wits which Nature had given him . De Catinat dashed himself down upon the leather cushion in the agony of his thoughts.But then came a return of that common-sense which lies so very closely beneath the impetuosity of the Celt . The matter was done now , and he must see if it could not be mended . Amos Green had escaped . That was one grand point in his favour . And Amos Green had heard the king 's message , and realised its importance . It was true that he knew nothing of Paris , but surely a man who could pick his way at night through the forests of Maine would not be baulked in finding so well-known a house as that of the Archbishop of Paris . But then there came a sudden thought which turned De Catinat 's heart to lead . The city gates were locked at eight o'clock in the evening . It was now nearly nine . It would have been easy for him , whose uniform was a voucher for his message , to gain his way through . But how could Amos Green , a foreigner and a civilian , hope to pass ? It was impossible , clearly impossible . And yet , somehow , in spite of the impossibility , he still clung to a vague hope that a man so full of energy and resource might find some way out of the difficulty.And then the thought of escape occurred to his mind . Might he not even now be in time , perhaps , to carry his own message ? Who were these men who had seized him ? They had said nothing to give him a hint as to whose tools they were . Monsieur and the dauphin occurred to his mind . Probably one or the other . He had only recognised one of them , old Major Despard , a man who frequented the low wine-shops of Versailles , and whose sword was ever at the disposal of the longest purse . And where were these people taking him to ? It might be to his death . But if they wished to do away with him , why should they have brought him back to consciousness ? and why this carriage and drive ? Full of curiosity , he peered out of the windows.A horseman was riding close up on either side ; but there was glass in front of the carriage , and through this he could gain some idea as to his whereabouts . The clouds had cleared now , and the moon was shining brightly , bathing the whole wide landscape in its shimmering light . To the right lay the open country , broad plains with clumps of