drank it down . `` That 's better , '' he said . `` Well , I waited for a quarter of an hour , or more , when suddenly there came a noise like people struggling inside the house . Next moment the door was flung open and two men appeared , one of whom was Drebber , and the other was a young chap whom I had never seen before . This fellow had Drebber by the collar , and when they came to the head of the steps he gave him a shove and a kick which sent him half across the road . 'You hound , ' he cried , shaking his stick at him ; 'I 'll teach you to insult an honest girl ! ' He was so hot that I think he would have thrashed Drebber with his cudgel , only that the cur staggered away down the road as fast as his legs would carry him . He ran as far as the corner , and then , seeing my cab , he hailed me and jumped in . 'Drive me to Halliday 's Private Hotel , ' said he . `` When I had him fairly inside my cab , my heart jumped so with joy that I feared lest at this last moment my aneurism might go wrong . I drove along slowly , weighing in my own mind what it was best to do . I might take him right out into the country , and there in some deserted lane have my last interview with him . I had almost decided upon this , when he solved the problem for me . The craze for drink had seized him again , and he ordered me to pull up outside a gin palace . He went in , leaving word that I should wait for him . There he remained until closing time , and when he came out he was so far gone that I knew the game was in my own hands . `` Do n't imagine that I intended to kill him in cold blood . It would only have been rigid justice if I had done so , but I could not bring myself to do it . I had long determined that he should have a show for his life if he chose to take advantage of it . Among the many billets which I have filled in America during my wandering life , I was once janitor and sweeper out of the laboratory at York College . One day the professor was lecturing on poisions , 25 and he showed his students some alkaloid , as he called it , which he had extracted from some South American arrow poison , and which was so powerful that the least grain meant instant death . I spotted the bottle in which this preparation was kept , and when they were all gone , I helped myself to a little of it . I was a fairly good dispenser , so I worked this alkaloid into small , soluble pills , and each pill I put in a box with a similar pill made without the poison . I determined at the time that when I had my chance , my gentlemen should each have a draw out of one of these boxes , while I ate the pill that remained . It would be quite as deadly , and a good deal less noisy than firing across a handkerchief . From that day I had always my pill boxes about with me , and the time had now come when I was to use them . `` It was nearer one than twelve , and a wild , bleak night , blowing hard and raining in torrents . Dismal as it was outside , I was glad within -- -so glad that I could have shouted out from pure exultation . If any of you gentlemen have ever pined for a thing , and longed for it during twenty long years , and then suddenly found it within your reach , you would understand my feelings . I lit a cigar , and puffed at it to steady my nerves , but my hands were trembling , and my temples throbbing with excitement . As I drove , I could see old John Ferrier and sweet Lucy looking at me out of the darkness and smiling at me , just as plain as I see you all in this room . All the way they were ahead of me , one on each side of the horse until I pulled up at the house in the Brixton Road . `` There was not a soul to be seen , nor a sound to be heard , except the dripping of the rain . When I looked in at the window , I found Drebber all huddled together in a drunken sleep . I shook him by the arm , 'It 's time to get out , ' I said . `` 'All right , cabby , ' said he . `` I suppose he thought we had come to the hotel that he had mentioned , for he got out without another word , and followed me down the garden . I had to walk beside him to keep him steady , for he was still a little top-heavy . When we came to the door , I opened it , and led him into the front room . I give you my word that all the way , the father and the daughter were walking in front of us . `` 'It 's infernally dark , ' said he , stamping about . `` 'We 'll soon have a light , ' I said , striking a match and putting it to a wax candle which I had brought with me . 'Now , Enoch Drebber , ' I continued , turning to him , and holding the light to my own face , 'who am I ? ' '' He gazed at me with bleared , drunken eyes for a moment , and then I saw a horror spring up in them , and convulse his whole features , which showed me that he knew me . He staggered back with a livid face , and I saw the perspiration break out upon his brow , while his teeth chattered in his head . At the sight , I leaned my back against the door and laughed loud and long . I had always known that vengeance would be sweet , but I had never hoped for the contentment of soul which now possessed me . `` 'You dog ! ' I said ; 'I have hunted you from Salt Lake City to St. Petersburg , and you have always escaped me . Now , at last your wanderings have come to an end , for either you or I shall never see to-morrow 's sun rise . ' He shrunk still further away as I spoke , and I could see on his face that he thought I was mad . So I was for the time . The pulses in my temples beat like sledge-hammers , and I believe I would have had a fit of some sort if the blood had not gushed from my nose and relieved me . `` 'What do you think of Lucy Ferrier now ? ' I cried , locking the door , and shaking the key in his face . 'Punishment has been slow in coming , but it has overtaken you at last . ' I saw his coward lips tremble as I spoke . He would have begged for his life , but he knew well that it was useless . `` 'Would you murder me ? ' he stammered . `` 'There is no murder , ' I answered . 'Who talks of murdering a mad dog ? What mercy had you upon my poor darling , when you dragged her from her slaughtered father , and bore her away to your accursed and shameless harem . ' '' 'It was not I who killed her father , ' he cried . `` 'But it was you who broke her innocent heart , ' I shrieked , thrusting the box before him . 'Let the high God judge between us . Choose and eat . There is death in one and life in the other . I shall take what you leave . Let us see if there is justice upon the earth , or if we are ruled by chance . ' '' He cowered away with wild cries and prayers for mercy , but I drew my knife and held it to his throat until he had obeyed me . Then I swallowed the other , and we stood facing one another in silence for a minute or more , waiting to see which was to live and which was to die . Shall I ever forget the look which came over his face when the first warning pangs told him that the poison was in his system ? I laughed as I saw it , and held Lucy 's marriage ring in front of his eyes . It was but for a moment , for the action of the alkaloid is rapid . A spasm of pain contorted his features ; he threw his hands out in front of him , staggered , and then , with a hoarse cry , fell heavily upon the floor . I turned him over with my foot , and placed my hand upon his heart . There was no movement . He was dead ! `` The blood had been streaming from my nose , but I had taken no notice of it . I do n't know what it was that put it into my head to write upon the wall with it . Perhaps it was some mischievous idea of setting the police upon a wrong track , for I felt light-hearted and cheerful . I remembered a German being found in New York with RACHE written up above him , and it was argued at the time in the newspapers that the secret societies must have done it . I guessed that what puzzled the New Yorkers would puzzle the Londoners , so I dipped my finger in my own blood and printed it on a convenient place on the wall . Then I walked down to my cab and found that there was nobody about , and that the night was still very wild . I had driven some distance when I put my hand into the pocket in which I usually kept Lucy 's ring , and found that it was not there . I was thunderstruck at this , for it was the only memento that I had of her . Thinking that I might have dropped it when I stooped over Drebber 's body , I drove back , and leaving my cab in a side street , I went boldly up to the house -- -for I was ready to dare anything rather than lose the ring . When I arrived there , I walked right into the arms of a police-officer who was coming out , and only managed to disarm his suspicions by pretending to be hopelessly drunk . `` That was how Enoch Drebber came to his end . All I had to do then was to do as much for Stangerson , and so pay off John Ferrier 's debt . I knew that he was staying at Halliday 's Private Hotel , and I hung about all day , but he never came out . 26 fancy that he suspected something when Drebber failed to put in