`` We are out of luck , '' said he.Amos Green looked about him with startled eyes . `` I can not understand it , '' said he . `` I could have sworn -- -By the eternal , listen to that ! '' The clear call of a military bugle rang out in the morning air . With a cry of amazement they all three craned forward and peered over the edge.A large ship was lying under the very shadow of the iceberg . They looked straight down upon her snow-white decks , fringed with shining brass cannon , and dotted with seamen . A little clump of soldiers stood upon the poop going through the manual exercise , and it was from them that the call had come which had sounded so unexpectedly in the ears of the castaways . Standing back from the edge , they had not only looked over the top-masts of this welcome neighbour , but they had themselves been invisible from her decks . Now the discovery was mutual , as was shown by a chorus of shouts and cries from beneath them.But the three did not wait an instant . Sliding and scrambling down the wet , slippery incline , they rushed shouting through the crack and into the cave where their comrades had just been startled by the bugle-call while in the middle of their cheerless breakfast . A few hurried words and the leaky long-boat had been launched , their possessions had been bundled in , and they were afloat once more . Pulling round a promontory of the berg , they found themselves under the stern of a fine corvette , the sides of which were lined with friendly faces , while from the peak there drooped a huge white banner mottled over with the golden lilies of France . In a very few minutes their boat had been hauled up and they found themselves on board theSt . Christopheman-of-war , conveying Marquis de Denonville , the new Governor-General of Canada , to take over his duties.A singular colony it was of which the shipwrecked party found themselves now to be members . TheSt . Christophehad left Rochelle three weeks before with four small consorts conveying five hundred soldiers to help the struggling colony on the St. Lawrence . The squadron had become separated , however , and the governor was pursuing his way alone in the hope of picking up the others in the river . Aboard he had a company of the regiment of Quercy , the staff of his own household , Saint Vallier , the new Bishop of Canada , with several of his attendants , three Recollet friars , and five Jesuits bound for the fatal Iroquois mission , half-a-dozen ladies on their way out to join their husbands , two Ursuline nuns , ten or twelve gallants whom love of adventure and the hope of bettering their fortunes had drawn across the seas , and lastly some twenty peasant maidens of Anjou who were secure of finding husbands waiting for them upon the beach , if only for the sake of the sheets , the pot , the tin plates and the kettle which the king would provide for each of his humble wards.To add a handful of New England Independents , a Puritan of Boston , and three Huguenots to such a gathering , was indeed to bring fire-brand and powder-barrel together . And yet all aboard were so busy with their own concerns that the castaways were left very much to themselves . Thirty of the soldiers were down with fever and scurvy , and both priests and nuns were fully taken up in nursing them . Denonville , the governor , a pious-minded dragoon , walked the deck all day reading the Psalms of David , and sat up half the night with maps and charts laid out before him , planning out the destruction of the Iroquois who were ravaging his dominions . The gallants and the ladies flirted , the maidens of Anjou made eyes at the soldiers of Quercy , and the bishop Saint Vallier read his offices and lectured his clergy . Ephraim Savage used to stand all day glaring at the good man as he paced the deck with his red-edged missal in his hand , and muttering about the `` abomination of desolation , '' but his little ways were put down to his exposure upon the iceberg , and to the fixed idea in the French mind that men of the Anglo-Saxon stock are not to be held accountable for their actions.There was peace between England and France at present , though feeling ran high between Canada and New York , the French believing , and with some justice , that the English colonists were whooping on the demons who attacked them . Ephraim and his men were therefore received hospitably on board , though the ship was so crowded that they had to sleep wherever they could find cover and space for their bodies . The Catinats , too , had been treated in an even more kindly fashion , the weak old man and the beauty of his daughter arousing the interest of the governor himself . De Catinat had , during the voyage , exchanged his uniform for a plain sombre suit , so that , except for his military bearing , there was nothing to show that he was a fugitive from the army . Old Catinat was now so weak that he was past the answering of questions , his daughter was forever at his side , and the soldier was diplomatist enough , after a training at Versailles , to say much without saying anything , and so their secret was still preserved . De Catinat had known what it was to be a Huguenot in Canada before the law was altered . He had no wish to try it after.On the day after the rescue they sighted Cape Breton in the south , and soon running swiftly before an easterly wind , saw the loom of the east end of Anticosti . Then they sailed up the mighty river , though from mid-channel the banks upon either side were hardly to be seen . As the shores narrowed in , they saw the wild gorge of the Saguenay River upon the right , with the smoke from the little fishing and trading station of Tadousac streaming up above the pine trees . Naked Indians with their faces daubed with red clay , Algonquins and Abenakis , clustered round the ship in their birchen canoes with fruit and vegetables from the land , which brought fresh life to the scurvy-stricken soldiers . Thence the ship tacked on up the river past Mal Bay , the Ravine of the Eboulements and the Bay of St. Paul with its broad valley and wooded mountains all in a blaze with their beautiful autumn dress , their scarlets , their purples , and their golds , from the maple , the ash , the young oak , and the saplings of the birch . Amos Green , leaning on the bulwarks , stared with longing eyes at these vast expanses of virgin woodland , hardly traversed save by an occasional wandering savage or hardycoureur-de-bois . Then the bold outline of Cape Tourmente loomed up in front of them ; they passed the rich placid meadows of Laval 's seigneury of Beaupre , and , skirting the settlements of the Island of Orleans , they saw the broad pool stretch out in front of them , the falls of Montmorenci , the high palisades of Cape Levi , the cluster of vessels , and upon the right that wonderful rock with its diadem of towers and its township huddled round its base , the centre and stronghold of French power in America . Cannon thundered from the bastions above , and were echoed back by the warship , while ensigns dipped , hats waved , and a swarm of boats and canoes shot out to welcome the new governor , and to convey the soldiers and passengers to shore.The old merchant had pined away since he had left French soil , like a plant which has been plucked from its roots . The shock of the shipwreck and the night spent in their bleak refuge upon the iceberg had been too much for his years and strength . Since they had been picked up he had lain amid the scurvy-stricken soldiers with hardly a sign of life save for his thin breathing and the twitching of his scraggy throat . Now , however , at the sound of the cannon and the shouting he opened his eyes , and raised himself slowly and painfully upon his pillow . `` What is it , father ? What can we do for you ? '' cried Adele . `` We are in America , and here is Amory and here am I , your children . `` But the old man shook his head . `` The Lord has brought me to the promised land , but He has not willed that I should enter into it , '' said he . `` May His will be done , and blessed be His name forever ! But at least I should wish , like Moses , to gaze upon it , if I can not set foot upon it . Think you , Amory , that you could lend me your arm and lead me on to the deck ? `` `` If I have another to help me , '' said De Catinat , and ascending to the deck , he brought Amos Green back with him . `` Now , father , if you will lay a hand upon the shoulder of each , you need scarce put your feet to the boards . `` A minute later the old merchant was on the deck , and the two young men had seated him upon a coil of rope with his back against the mast , where he should be away from the crush . The soldiers were already crowding down into the boats , and all were so busy over their own affairs that they paid no heed to the little group of refugees who gathered round the stricken man . He turned his head painfully from side to side , but his eyes brightened as they fell upon the broad blue stretch of water , the flash of the distant falls , the high castle , and the long line of purple mountains away to the north-west . `` It is not like France , '' said he . `` It is not green and peaceful and smiling , but it is grand and strong and stern like Him who made it . As I have weakened , Adele , my soul has been less clogged by my body , and I have seen clearly much that has been dim to me . And it has seemed to me , my children , that all this country of America , not Canada alone , but the land where you were born also , Amos Green , and all that stretches away towards yonder setting sun , will be the best gift of God to man . For this has He held it concealed through all the ages , that now His own high purpose may be wrought upon it . For here is a land which is innocent , which has no past guilt to atone for , no feud , nor ill custom , nor evil of any kind . And as the years roll on all the weary and homeless ones , all who are stricken and landless and wronged , will turn their faces to it ,