that I should point out to him the corrosive effect which modern science must have upon his beliefs , he none the less gave me some positive information . Maple White passed Rosario four years ago , or two years before I saw his dead body . He was not alone at the time , but there was a friend , an American named James Colver , who remained in the boat and did not meet this ecclesiastic . I think , therefore , that there can be no doubt that we are now looking upon the remains of this James Colver . `` `` Nor , '' said Lord John , `` is there much doubt as to how he met his death . He has fallen or been chucked from the top , and so been impaled . How else could he come by his broken bones , and how could he have been stuck through by these canes with their points so high above our heads ? `` A hush came over us as we stood round these shattered remains and realized the truth of Lord John Roxton 's words . The beetling head of the cliff projected over the cane-brake . Undoubtedly he had fallen from above . But had he fallen ? Had it been an accident ? Or -- -already ominous and terrible possibilities began to form round that unknown land.We moved off in silence , and continued to coast round the line of cliffs , which were as even and unbroken as some of those monstrous Antarctic ice-fields which I have seen depicted as stretching from horizon to horizon and towering high above the mast-heads of the exploring vessel.In five miles we saw no rift or break . And then suddenly we perceived something which filled us with new hope . In a hollow of the rock , protected from rain , there was drawn a rough arrow in chalk , pointing still to the westwards . `` Maple White again , '' said Professor Challenger . `` He had some presentiment that worthy footsteps would follow close behind him . `` `` He had chalk , then ? `` `` A box of colored chalks was among the effects I found in his knapsack . I remember that the white one was worn to a stump . `` `` That is certainly good evidence , '' said Summerlee . `` We can only accept his guidance and follow on to the westward . `` We had proceeded some five more miles when again we saw a white arrow upon the rocks . It was at a point where the face of the cliff was for the first time split into a narrow cleft . Inside the cleft was a second guidance mark , which pointed right up it with the tip somewhat elevated , as if the spot indicated were above the level of the ground.It was a solemn place , for the walls were so gigantic and the slit of blue sky so narrow and so obscured by a double fringe of verdure , that only a dim and shadowy light penetrated to the bottom . We had had no food for many hours , and were very weary with the stony and irregular journey , but our nerves were too strung to allow us to halt . We ordered the camp to be pitched , however , and , leaving the Indians to arrange it , we four , with the two half-breeds , proceeded up the narrow gorge.It was not more than forty feet across at the mouth , but it rapidly closed until it ended in an acute angle , too straight and smooth for an ascent . Certainly it was not this which our pioneer had attempted to indicate . We made our way back -- -the whole gorge was not more than a quarter of a mile deep -- -and then suddenly the quick eyes of Lord John fell upon what we were seeking . High up above our heads , amid the dark shadows , there was one circle of deeper gloom . Surely it could only be the opening of a cave.The base of the cliff was heaped with loose stones at the spot , and it was not difficult to clamber up . When we reached it , all doubt was removed . Not only was it an opening into the rock , but on the side of it there was marked once again the sign of the arrow . Here was the point , and this the means by which Maple White and his ill-fated comrade had made their ascent.We were too excited to return to the camp , but must make our first exploration at once . Lord John had an electric torch in his knapsack , and this had to serve us as light . He advanced , throwing his little clear circlet of yellow radiance before him , while in single file we followed at his heels.The cave had evidently been water-worn , the sides being smooth and the floor covered with rounded stones . It was of such a size that a single man could just fit through by stooping . For fifty yards it ran almost straight into the rock , and then it ascended at an angle of forty-five . Presently this incline became even steeper , and we found ourselves climbing upon hands and knees among loose rubble which slid from beneath us . Suddenly an exclamation broke from Lord Roxton . `` It 's blocked ! '' said he.Clustering behind him we saw in the yellow field of light a wall of broken basalt which extended to the ceiling . `` The roof has fallen in ! `` In vain we dragged out some of the pieces . The only effect was that the larger ones became detached and threatened to roll down the gradient and crush us . It was evident that the obstacle was far beyond any efforts which we could make to remove it . The road by which Maple White had ascended was no longer available.Too much cast down to speak , we stumbled down the dark tunnel and made our way back to the camp.One incident occurred , however , before we left the gorge , which is of importance in view of what came afterwards.We had gathered in a little group at the bottom of the chasm , some forty feet beneath the mouth of the cave , when a huge rock rolled suddenly downwards -- -and shot past us with tremendous force . It was the narrowest escape for one or all of us . We could not ourselves see whence the rock had come , but our half-breed servants , who were still at the opening of the cave , said that it had flown past them , and must therefore have fallen from the summit . Looking upwards , we could see no sign of movement above us amidst the green jungle which topped the cliff . There could be little doubt , however , that the stone was aimed at us , so the incident surely pointed to humanity -- -and malevolent humanity -- -upon the plateau.We withdrew hurriedly from the chasm , our minds full of this new development and its bearing upon our plans . The situation was difficult enough before , but if the obstructions of Nature were increased by the deliberate opposition of man , then our case was indeed a hopeless one . And yet , as we looked up at that beautiful fringe of verdure only a few hundreds of feet above our heads , there was not one of us who could conceive the idea of returning to London until we had explored it to its depths.On discussing the situation , we determined that our best course was to continue to coast round the plateau in the hope of finding some other means of reaching the top . The line of cliffs , which had decreased considerably in height , had already begun to trend from west to north , and if we could take this as representing the arc of a circle , the whole circumference could not be very great . At the worst , then , we should be back in a few days at our starting-point.We made a march that day which totaled some two-and-twenty miles , without any change in our prospects . I may mention that our aneroid shows us that in the continual incline which we have ascended since we abandoned our canoes we have risen to no less than three thousand feet above sea-level . Hence there is a considerable change both in the temperature and in the vegetation . We have shaken off some of that horrible insect life which is the bane of tropical travel . A few palms still survive , and many tree-ferns , but the Amazonian trees have been all left behind . It was pleasant to see the convolvulus , the passion-flower , and the begonia , all reminding me of home , here among these inhospitable rocks . There was a red begonia just the same color as one that is kept in a pot in the window of a certain villa in Streatham -- -but I am drifting into private reminiscence.That night -- -I am still speaking of the first day of our circumnavigation of the plateau -- -a great experience awaited us , and one which for ever set at rest any doubt which we could have had as to the wonders so near us.You will realize as you read it , my dear Mr. McArdle , and possibly for the first time that the paper has not sent me on a wild-goose chase , and that there is inconceivably fine copy waiting for the world whenever we have the Professor 's leave to make use of it . I shall not dare to publish these articles unless I can bring back my proofs to England , or I shall be hailed as the journalistic Munchausen of all time . I have no doubt that you feel the same way yourself , and that you would not care to stake the whole credit of the Gazette upon this adventure until we can meet the chorus of criticism and scepticism which such articles must of necessity elicit . So this wonderful incident , which would make such a headline for the old paper , must still wait its turn in the editorial drawer.And yet it was all over in a flash , and there was no sequel to it , save in our own convictions.What occurred was this . Lord John had shot an ajouti -- -which is a small , pig-like animal -- -and , half of it having been given to the Indians , we were cooking the other half upon our fire . There is a chill in the air after dark , and we had all drawn close to the blaze . The night was moonless , but there were some stars , and one could see for a little distance across the plain . Well , suddenly out of the darkness , out of the night , there swooped something with a swish like an aeroplane . The whole group of us were covered for an instant by a canopy of leathery wings , and I had a momentary vision of a long , snake-like neck , a fierce , red , greedy eye , and a great snapping beak , filled , to my amazement , with little , gleaming teeth . The next instant it was gone -- -and so was our dinner . A huge black shadow , twenty feet across , skimmed up into the air ; for an instant the monster