; I am , '' I answered . `` Then put your hand here , '' he said , with a smile , motioning with his manacled wrists towards his chest.I did so ; and became at once conscious of an extraordinary throbbing and commotion which was going on inside . The walls of his chest seemed to thrill and quiver as a frail building would do inside when some powerful engine was at work . In the silence of the room I could hear a dull humming and buzzing noise which proceeded from the same source . `` Why , '' I cried , `` you have an aortic aneurism ! `` `` That 's what they call it , '' he said , placidly . `` I went to a Doctor last week about it , and he told me that it is bound to burst before many days passed . It has been getting worse for years . I got it from over-exposure and under-feeding among the Salt Lake Mountains . I 've done my work now , and I do n't care how soon I go , but I should like to leave some account of the business behind me . I do n't want to be remembered as a common cut-throat . `` The Inspector and the two detectives had a hurried discussion as to the advisability of allowing him to tell his story . `` Do you consider , Doctor , that there is immediate danger ? '' the former asked , 24 '' Most certainly there is , '' I answered . `` In that case it is clearly our duty , in the interests of justice , to take his statement , '' said the Inspector . `` You are at liberty , sir , to give your account , which I again warn you will be taken down . `` `` I 'll sit down , with your leave , '' the prisoner said , suiting the action to the word . `` This aneurism of mine makes me easily tired , and the tussle we had half an hour ago has not mended matters . I 'm on the brink of the grave , and I am not likely to lie to you . Every word I say is the absolute truth , and how you use it is a matter of no consequence to me . `` With these words , Jefferson Hope leaned back in his chair and began the following remarkable statement . He spoke in a calm and methodical manner , as though the events which he narrated were commonplace enough . I can vouch for the accuracy of the subjoined account , for I have had access to Lestrade 's note-book , in which the prisoner 's words were taken down exactly as they were uttered . `` It do n't much matter to you why I hated these men , '' he said ; `` it 's enough that they were guilty of the death of two human beings -- -a father and a daughter -- -and that they had , therefore , forfeited their own lives . After the lapse of time that has passed since their crime , it was impossible for me to secure a conviction against them in any court . I knew of their guilt though , and I determined that I should be judge , jury , and executioner all rolled into one . You 'd have done the same , if you have any manhood in you , if you had been in my place . `` That girl that I spoke of was to have married me twenty years ago . She was forced into marrying that same Drebber , and broke her heart over it . I took the marriage ring from her dead finger , and I vowed that his dying eyes should rest upon that very ring , and that his last thoughts should be of the crime for which he was punished . I have carried it about with me , and have followed him and his accomplice over two continents until I caught them . They thought to tire me out , but they could not do it . If I die to-morrow , as is likely enough , I die knowing that my work in this world is done , and well done . They have perished , and by my hand . There is nothing left for me to hope for , or to desire . `` They were rich and I was poor , so that it was no easy matter for me to follow them . When I got to London my pocket was about empty , and I found that I must turn my hand to something for my living . Driving and riding are as natural to me as walking , so I applied at a cabowner 's office , and soon got employment . I was to bring a certain sum a week to the owner , and whatever was over that I might keep for myself . There was seldom much over , but I managed to scrape along somehow . The hardest job was to learn my way about , for I reckon that of all the mazes that ever were contrived , this city is the most confusing . I had a map beside me though , and when once I had spotted the principal hotels and stations , I got on pretty well . `` It was some time before I found out where my two gentlemen were living ; but I inquired and inquired until at last I dropped across them . They were at a boarding-house at Camberwell , over on the other side of the river . When once I found them out I knew that I had them at my mercy . I had grown my beard , and there was no chance of their recognizing me . I would dog them and follow them until I saw my opportunity . I was determined that they should not escape me again . `` They were very near doing it for all that . Go where they would about London , I was always at their heels . Sometimes I followed them on my cab , and sometimes on foot , but the former was the best , for then they could not get away from me . It was only early in the morning or late at night that I could earn anything , so that I began to get behind hand with my employer . I did not mind that , however , as long as I could lay my hand upon the men I wanted . `` They were very cunning , though . They must have thought that there was some chance of their being followed , for they would never go out alone , and never after nightfall . During two weeks I drove behind them every day , and never once saw them separate . Drebber himself was drunk half the time , but Stangerson was not to be caught napping . I watched them late and early , but never saw the ghost of a chance ; but I was not discouraged , for something told me that the hour had almost come . My only fear was that this thing in my chest might burst a little too soon and leave my work undone . `` At last , one evening I was driving up and down Torquay Terrace , as the street was called in which they boarded , when I saw a cab drive up to their door . Presently some luggage was brought out , and after a time Drebber and Stangerson followed it , and drove off . I whipped up my horse and kept within sight of them , feeling very ill at ease , for I feared that they were going to shift their quarters . At Euston Station they got out , and I left a boy to hold my horse , and followed them on to the platform . I heard them ask for the Liverpool train , and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would not be another for some hours . Stangerson seemed to be put out at that , but Drebber was rather pleased than otherwise . I got so close to them in the bustle that I could hear every word that passed between them . Drebber said that he had a little business of his own to do , and that if the other would wait for him he would soon rejoin him . His companion remonstrated with him , and reminded him that they had resolved to stick together . Drebber answered that the matter was a delicate one , and that he must go alone . I could not catch what Stangerson said to that , but the other burst out swearing , and reminded him that he was nothing more than his paid servant , and that he must not presume to dictate to him . On that the Secretary gave it up as a bad job , and simply bargained with him that if he missed the last train he should rejoin him at Halliday 's Private Hotel ; to which Drebber answered that he would be back on the platform before eleven , and made his way out of the station . `` The moment for which I had waited so long had at last come . I had my enemies within my power . Together they could protect each other , but singly they were at my mercy . I did not act , however , with undue precipitation . My plans were already formed . There is no satisfaction in vengeance unless the offender has time to realize who it is that strikes him , and why retribution has come upon him . I had my plans arranged by which I should have the opportunity of making the man who had wronged me understand that his old sin had found him out . It chanced that some days before a gentleman who had been engaged in looking over some houses in the Brixton Road had dropped the key of one of them in my carriage . It was claimed that same evening , and returned ; but in the interval I had taken a moulding of it , and had a duplicate constructed . By means of this I had access to at least one spot in this great city where I could rely upon being free from interruption . How to get Drebber to that house was the difficult problem which I had now to solve . `` He walked down the road and went into one or two liquor shops , staying for nearly half-an-hour in the last of them . When he came out he staggered in his walk , and was evidently pretty well on . There was a hansom just in front of me , and he hailed it . I followed it so close that the nose of my horse was within a yard of his driver the whole way . We rattled across Waterloo Bridge and through miles of streets , until , to my astonishment , we found ourselves back in the Terrace in which he had boarded . I could not imagine what his intention was in returning there ; but I went on and pulled up my cab a hundred yards or so from the house . He entered it , and his hansom drove away . Give me a glass of water , if you please . My mouth gets dry with the talking . `` I handed him the glass , and he