International football player . To Tom this red-bearded rough , who charged him so furiously , was nothing more than the thousands of bull-headed forwards who had come upon him like thunder-bolts in the days of old . With the ease begotten by practice he circled his assailant with his long muscular arms , and gave a quick convulsive jerk in which every sinew of his body participated . The red-bearded man 's stumpy legs described a half-circle in the air , and he came down on the stone pavement with a sounding crash which shook every particle of breath from his enormous body.Tom 's fighting blood was all aflame now , and his grey eyes glittered with a Berserk joy as he made at Ezra . All the cautions of his father and the exhortations of his mother were cast to the winds as he saw his enemy standing before him . To do him justice , Ezra was nothing loth , but sprang forward to meet him , hitting with both hands . They were well matched , for both were trained boxers and exceptionally powerful men . Ezra was perhaps the stronger , but Tom was in better condition . There was a short eager rally -- -blow and guard and counter so quick and hard that the eye could hardly follow it . Then a rush of railway servants and bystanders tore them asunder . Tom had a red flush on his forehead where a blow had fallen , Ezra was spitting out the fragments of a broken tooth , and bleeding profusely . Each struggled furiously to get at the other , with the result that they were dragged farther apart . Eventually a burly policeman seized Tom by the collar , and held him as in a vice . `` Where is he ? '' Tom cried , craning his neck to catch a glimpse of his enemy . `` He 'll get away after all . `` `` Ca n't 'elp that , '' said the guardian of the peace phlegmatically . `` A gen'elman like you ought to be ashamed . Keep quiet now ! Would yer , then ! '' This last at some specially energetic effort on the part of the prisoner to recover his freedom . `` They 'll get away ! I know they will ! '' Tom cried in despair , for both Ezra and his companion , who was none other than Burt , of African notoriety , had disappeared from his sight . His fears proved to be only too well founded , for when at last he succeeded in wresting himself from the constable 's clutches he could find no trace of his enemies . A dozen bystanders gave a dozen different accounts of their movements . He rushed from one platform to another over all the great station . He could have torn his hair at the thought of the way in which he had allowed them to slip through his fingers . It was fully an hour before he finally abandoned the search , and acknowledged to himself that he had been hoodwinked for the third time , and that a long week would elapse before he could have another chance of solving the mystery.He turned at last sadly and reluctantly away from the station , and walked across to Waterloo Bridge , brooding over all that had occurred , and cursing himself for his stupidity in allowing himself to be drawn into a vulgar brawl , when he might have attained his end so much better by quiet observation . It was some consolation , however , that he had had one fair crack at Ezra Girdlestone . He glanced down at his knuckles , which were raw and bleeding , with a mixture of satisfaction and disgust . With half a smile he put his injured hand in his pocket , and looking up once more became aware that a red-faced gentleman was approaching him in a highly excited manner.It could not be said that the red-faced gentleman walked , neither could it be said that the red-faced gentleman ran . His mode of progression might best be described as a succession of short and unwieldy jumps , which , as he was a rather stout gentleman , appeared to indicate some very urgent and pressing need for hurry . His face was bathed in perspiration , and his collar had become flaccid and shapeless from the same cause . It appeared to Tom , as he gazed at those rubicund , though anxious , features , that they should be well known to him . That glossy hat , those speckless gaiters , and the long frock-coat , surely they could belong to none other than the gallant Major Tobias Clutterbuck , late of her Majesty 's 119th of the Line ? As the old soldier approached Tom , he quickened his pace , so that when he eventually came up with him he could only puff and pant and hold out a soiled letter. '' Read ! '' he managed to ejaculate.Tom opened the letter and glanced his eye over the contents , with a face which had turned as pale as the major 's was red . When he finished it he turned without a word , and began to run in the direction from which he had come , the major following as quickly as his breath would permit.When Kate came to herself after the terrible incident which frustrated her attempt at escape , she found herself in bed in her own little room . By the light which shone in through the window she knew that it must be well on in the day . Her head was throbbing violently , and she was so weak that she could hardly raise herself in bed . When she looked round she found that Rebecca had brought a chair in from her room and was sitting by the fire . At the sound of her movement the maid glanced up and perceived that her mistress had recovered consciousness . `` Lor ' bless me ! '' she cried , `` you 've given us a pretty fright . We thought you was n't coming back to your senses no more . You 've been a-lyin ' there since the middle of the night , and now it 's close on to twelve o'clock . `` Kate lay silent for some little time , putting together all that had occurred . `` Oh , Rebecca , '' she said at last , shivering at the recollection , `` I have seen the most dreadful sight . Either I am going mad , or I have seen a ghost . `` `` We thought you were a ghost yourself , '' said the girl reproachfully . `` What with the screechin ' and you lying so white in the middle of the passage , it was enough to make any one 's 'air turn grey . Mr. Girdlestone , he lifted you up , an ' carried you back into your room . He was cut to the heart , the good gentleman , when he saw what you 'd been after , a-tryin ' to give him the slip . `` `` Oh , this dreadful house will kill me -- -it will kill me ! '' Kate moaned . `` I can not stay in it any longer . What shall I do ? Oh , Rebecca , Rebecca , what shall I do ? `` The fresh-coloured maid came across with a simper upon her pretty , vulgar face , and sat on the side of the bed . `` What 's the matter , then ? '' she asked . `` What is it that you have seen ? `` `` I have seen -- -oh , Rebecca , it is too dreadful to talk of . I have seen that poor monk who was killed in the cellars . It was not fancy . I saw him as plainly as I see you now , with his tall thin figure , and long loose gown , and the brown cowl drawn over his face . `` `` God preserve us ! '' cried Rebecca nervously , glancing over her shoulder . `` It is enough to give one the creeps . `` `` I pray that I may never see such a sight again . Oh , Rebecca , if you have the heart of a woman , help me to get away from this place . They mean that I should never go from it alive . I have read it in my guardian 's eyes . He longs for my death . Do , do tell me what I should do for the best . `` `` I 'm surprised at you ! '' the maid said with dignity . `` When Mr. Girdlestone and Mr. Ezra is so good to you , and provides you with a country-house and every convenience as 'eart could wish , all you can find to do is to go screamin ' about at night , and then talk as if you was a-goin ' to be murdered in the day . I really am surprised . There 's Mr. Girdlestone a-callin . ' He 'd be shocked , poor gentleman , if he knew how you was abusin ' of him . '' Rebecca 's face assumed an expression of virtuous indignation as she swept out of the room , but her black eyes shone with the unholy light of cruelty and revenge.Left to herself , Kate rose and dressed as well as her weakness would permit . Her nerves were so shaken that she started at the least sound , and she could hardly recognize the poor pale face which she saw in the glass as her own . She had scarcely finished her toilet before her guardian came up into her room . `` You are better , then ? '' he said . `` I am very ill , '' she answered gently . `` No wonder , after rushing about the corridors in that absurd fashion in the dead of the night . Rebecca tells me that you imagine you met with some apparition . You are crying . Are you so unhappy , then ? `` `` Very , very miserable , '' Kate answered , sinking her face upon her hands . `` Ah , '' said Girdlestone softly , `` it is only in some higher life that we shall find entire peace and contentment . '' His voice had altered , so that a little warm spring of hope began to rise in the girl 's heart , that perhaps the sight of her many miseries was beginning to melt this iron man . `` Beyond the grave is rest , '' he continued , in the same gentle tones . `` It has seemed to me sometimes that if it were not for the duties which I have to perform in this world , and the many who are dependent upon me , I should be tempted to shorten my existence in order to attain the peace which is to come . Some precisians have pronounced it to be sinful to cut the thread of life . For my part I have never thought it so , and yet my view of morals has been a strict one . I hold that of all things in this world one 's life is the thing which belongs most entirely to one 's self , and may therefore most freely be terminated when it seems good to us . '' He picked up the phial from the mantelpiece and gazed thoughtfully at it . `` How strange ,