dated from Naples , which told us that he had derived much benefit from the change , and that he had no intention of returning to Scotland for some time . This was satisfactory to all of us , for my father had found Branksome such an excellent place for study that it would have been a sore trial to him to return to the noise and tumult of a city . As to my dear sister and myself , there were , as I have shown , stronger reasons still to make us love the Wigtownshire moors.In spite of my interview with the general -- -or perhaps I might say on account of it -- -I took occasion at least twice a day to walk towards Cloomber and satisfy myself that all was well there . He had begun by resenting my intrusion , but he had ended by taking me into a sort of half-confidence , and even by asking my assistance , so I felt that I stood upon a different footing with him than I had done formerly , and that he was less likely to be annoyed by my presence . Indeed , I met him pacing round the inclosure a few days afterwards , and his manner towards me was civil , though he made no allusion to our former conversation.He appeared to be still in an extreme state of nervousness , starting from time to time , and gazing furtively about him , with little frightened , darting glances to the right and the left . I hoped that his daughter was right in naming the fifth of October as the turning point of his complaint , for it was evident to me as I looked at his gleaming eyes and quivering hands , that a man could not live long in such a state of nervous tension.I found on examination that he had had the loose rails securely fastened so as to block up our former trysting-place , and though I prowled round the whole long line of fencing , I was unable to find any other place where an entrance could be effected.Here and there between the few chinks left in the barrier I could catch glimpses of the Hall , and once I saw a rough-looking , middle-aged man standing at a window on the lower floor , whom I supposed to be Israel Stakes , the coachman . There was no sign , however , of Gabriel or of Mordaunt , and their absence alarmed me . I was convinced that , unless they were under some restraint , they would have managed to communicate with my sister or myself . My fears became more and more acute as day followed day without our seeing or hearing anything of them.One morning -- -it was the second day of October -- -I was walking towards the Hall , hoping that I might be fortunate enough to learn some news of my darling , when I observed a man perched upon a stone at the side of the road.As I came nearer to him I could see that he was a stranger , and from his dusty clothes and dilapidated appearance he seemed to have come from a distance . He had a great hunch of bread on his knee and a clasp-knife in his hand , but he had apparently just finished his breakfast , for he brushed the crumbs off his lap and rose to his feet when he perceived me.Noticing the great height of the fellow and that he still held his weapon , I kept well to the other side of the road , for I knew that destitution makes men desperate and that the chain that glittered on my waistcoat might be too great a temptation to him upon this lonely highway . I was confirmed in my fears when I saw him step out into the centre of the road and bar my progress . `` Well , my lad , '' I said , affecting an ease which I by no means felt , `` what can I do for you this morning ? `` The fellow 's face was the colour of mahogany with exposure to the weather , and he had a deep scar from the corner of his mouth to his ear , which by no means improved his appearance . His hair was grizzled , but his figure was stalwart , and his fur cap was cocked on one side so as to give him a rakish , semi-military appearance . Altogether he gave me the impression of being one of the most dangerous types of tramp that I had ever fallen in with.Instead of replying to my question , he eyed me for some time in silence with sullen , yellow-shot eyes , and then closed his knife with a loud snick . `` You 're not a beak , '' he said , `` too young for that , I guess . They had me in chokey at Paisley and they had me in chokey at Wigtown , but by the living thunder if another of them lays a hand on me I 'll make him remember Corporal Rufus Smith ! It 's a darned fine country this , where they wo n't give a man work , and then lay him by the heels for having no visible means of subsistence . `` `` I am sorry to see an old soldier so reduced , '' said I . `` What corps did you serve in ? `` `` H Battery , Royal Horse Artillery . Bad cess to the Service and every one in it ! Here I am nigh sixty years of age , with a beggarly pension of thirty-eight pound ten -- -not enough to keep me in beer and baccy . `` `` I should have thought thirty-eight pound ten a year would have been a nice help to you in your old age , '' I remarked . `` Would you , though ? '' he answered with a sneer , pushing his weather-beaten face forward until it was within a foot of my own . `` How much d 'ye think that slash with a tulwar is worth ? And my foot with all the bones rattling about like a bagful of dice where the trail of the gun went across it . What 's that worth , eh ? And a liver like a sponge , and ague whenever the wind comes round to the east -- -what 's the market value of that ? Would you take the lot for a dirty forty pound a year -- -would you now ? `` `` We are poor folk in this part of the country , '' I answered . `` You would pass for a rich man down here . `` `` They are fool folk and they have fool tastes , '' said he , drawing a black pipe from his pocket and stuffing it with tobacco . `` I know what good living is , and , by cripes ! while I have a shilling in my pocket I like to spend it as a shilling should be spent . I 've fought for my country and my country has done darned little for me . I 'll go to the Rooshians , so help me ! I could show them how to cross the Himalayas so that it would puzzle either Afghans or British to stop 'em . What 's that secret worth in St. Petersburg , eh , mister ? `` `` I am ashamed to hear an old soldier speak so , even in jest , '' said I sternly . `` Jest , indeed ! '' he cried , with a great , roaring oath . `` I 'd have done it years ago if the Rooshians had been game to take it up . Skobeloff was the best of the bunch , but he 's been snuffed out . However , that 's neither here nor there . What I want to ask you is whether you 've ever heard anything in this quarter of a man called Heatherstone , the same who used to be colonel of the 41st Bengalis ? They told me at Wigtown that he lived somewhere down this way . `` `` He lives in that large house over yonder , '' said I , pointing to Cloomber Tower . `` You 'll find the avenue gate a little way down the road , but the general is n't over fond of visitors . `` The last part of my speech was lost upon Corporal Rufus Smith ; for the instant that I pointed out the gate he set off hopping down the road.His mode of progression was the most singular I have ever seen , for he would only put his right foot to the ground once in every half-dozen strides , while he worked so hard and attained such a momentum with the other limb that he got over the ground at an astonishing speed.I was so surprised that I stood in the roadway gazing after this hulking figure until the thought suddenly struck me that some serious result might come from a meeting between a man of such blunt speech and the choleric , hot-headed general . I therefore followed him as he hopped along like some great , clumsy bird , and overtook him at the avenue gate , where he stood grasping the ironwork and peering through at the dark carriage-drive beyond . `` He 's a sly old jackal , '' he said , looking round at me and nodding his head in the direction of the Hall . `` He 's a deep old dog . And that 's his bungalow , is it , among the trees ? `` `` That is his house , '' I answered ; `` but I should advise you to keep a more civil tongue in your head if you intend to speak with the general . He is not a man to stand any nonsense . `` `` Right you are . He was always a hard nut to crack . But is n't this him coming down the avenue ? `` I looked through the gate and saw that it was indeed the general , who , having either seen us or been attracted by our voices , was hurrying down towards us . As he advanced he would stop from time to time and peer at us through the dark shadow thrown by the trees , as if he were irresolute whether to come on or no . `` He 's reconnoitering ! '' whispered my companion with a hoarse chuckle . `` He 's afraid -- -and I know what he 's afraid of . He wo n't be caught in a trap if he can help it , the old 'un . He 's about as fly as they make 'em , you bet ! `` Then suddenly standing on his tip-toes and waving his hand through the bars of the gate , he shouted at the top of his voice : '' Come on , my gallant commandant ! Come on ! The coast 's clear , and no enemy in sight . `` This familiar address had the effect of reassuring the general , for he came right for us , though I could tell by his heightened colour that his temper was at boiling point . `` What , you here , Mr . West ? '' he said , as his eye fell upon me . `` What is it you want , and why have you brought this fellow with you ? `` `` I have not brought him with me , sir ,