value were found upon us it would cause suspicion , and there was no privacy in the fort nor any place where we could keep them . We carried the box , therefore , into the same hall where we had buried the body , and there , under certain bricks in the best-preserved wall , we made a hollow and put our treasure . We made careful note of the place , and next day I drew four plans , one for each of us , and put the sign of the four of us at the bottom , for we had sworn that we should each always act for all , so that none might take advantage . That is an oath that I can put my hand to my heart and swear that I have never broken . `` Well , there 's no use my telling you gentlemen what came of the Indian mutiny . After Wilson took Delhi and Sir Colin relieved Lucknow the back of the business was broken . Fresh troops came pouring in , and Nana Sahib made himself scarce over the frontier . A flying column under Colonel Greathed came round to Agra and cleared the Pandies away from it . Peace seemed to be settling upon the country , and we four were beginning to hope that the time was at hand when we might safely go off with our shares of the plunder . In a moment , however , our hopes were shattered by our being arrested as the murderers of Achmet . `` It came about in this way . When the rajah put his jewels into the hands of Achmet he did it because he knew that he was a trusty man . They are suspicious folk in the East , however : so what does this rajah do but take a second even more trusty servant and set him to play the spy upon the first ? This second man was ordered never to let Achmet out of his sight , and he followed him like his shadow . He went after him that night and saw him pass through the doorway . Of course he thought he had taken refuge in the fort , and applied for admission there himself next day , but could find no trace of Achmet . This seemed to him so strange that he spoke about it to a sergeant of guides , who brought it to the ears of the commandant . A thorough search was quickly made , and the body was discovered . Thus at the very moment that we thought that all was safe we were all four seized and brought to trial on a charge of murder , -- -three of us because we had held the gate that night , and the fourth because he was known to have been in the company of the murdered man . Not a word about the jewels came out at the trial , for the rajah had been deposed and driven out of India : so no one had any particular interest in them . The murder , however , was clearly made out , and it was certain that we must all have been concerned in it . The three Sikhs got penal servitude for life , and I was condemned to death , though my sentence was afterwards commuted into the same as the others . `` It was rather a queer position that we found ourselves in then . There we were all four tied by the leg and with precious little chance of ever getting out again , while we each held a secret which might have put each of us in a palace if we could only have made use of it . It was enough to make a man eat his heart out to have to stand the kick and the cuff of every petty jack-in-office , to have rice to eat and water to drink , when that gorgeous fortune was ready for him outside , just waiting to be picked up . It might have driven me mad ; but I was always a pretty stubborn one , so I just held on and bided my time . `` At last it seemed to me to have come . I was changed from Agra to Madras , and from there to Blair Island in the Andamans . There are very few white convicts at this settlement , and , as I had behaved well from the first , I soon found myself a sort of privileged person . I was given a hut in Hope Town , which is a small place on the slopes of Mount Harriet , and I was left pretty much to myself . It is a dreary , fever-stricken place , and all beyond our little clearings was infested with wild cannibal natives , who were ready enough to blow a poisoned dart at us if they saw a chance . There was digging , and ditching , and yam-planting , and a dozen other things to be done , so we were busy enough all day ; though in the evening we had a little time to ourselves . Among other things , I learned to dispense drugs for the surgeon , and picked up a smattering of his knowledge . All the time I was on the lookout for a chance of escape ; but it is hundreds of miles from any other land , and there is little or no wind in those seas : so it was a terribly difficult job to get away . `` The surgeon , Dr. Somerton , was a fast , sporting young chap , and the other young officers would meet in his rooms of an evening and play cards . The surgery , where I used to make up my drugs , was next to his sitting-room , with a small window between us . Often , if I felt lonesome , I used to turn out the lamp in the surgery , and then , standing there , I could hear their talk and watch their play . I am fond of a hand at cards myself , and it was almost as good as having one to watch the others . There was Major Sholto , Captain Morstan , and Lieutenant Bromley Brown , who were in command of the native troops , and there was the surgeon himself , and two or three prison-officials , crafty old hands who played a nice sly safe game . A very snug little party they used to make . `` Well , there was one thing which very soon struck me , and that was that the soldiers used always to lose and the civilians to win . Mind , I do n't say that there was anything unfair , but so it was . These prison-chaps had done little else than play cards ever since they had been at the Andamans , and they knew each other 's game to a point , while the others just played to pass the time and threw their cards down anyhow . Night after night the soldiers got up poorer men , and the poorer they got the more keen they were to play . Major Sholto was the hardest hit . He used to pay in notes and gold at first , but soon it came to notes of hand and for big sums . He sometimes would win for a few deals , just to give him heart , and then the luck would set in against him worse than ever . All day he would wander about as black as thunder , and he took to drinking a deal more than was good for him . `` One night he lost even more heavily than usual . I was sitting in my hut when he and Captain Morstan came stumbling along on the way to their quarters . They were bosom friends , those two , and never far apart . The major was raving about his losses . `` 'It 's all up , Morstan , ' he was saying , as they passed my hut . 'I shall have to send in my papers . I am a ruined man . ' '' 'Nonsense , old chap ! ' said the other , slapping him upon the shoulder . 'I 've had a nasty facer myself , but -- - ' That was all I could hear , but it was enough to set me thinking . `` A couple of days later Major Sholto was strolling on the beach : so I took the chance of speaking to him . `` 'I wish to have your advice , major , ' said I . `` 'Well , Small , what is it ? ' he asked , taking his cheroot from his lips . `` 'I wanted to ask you , sir , ' said I , 'who is the proper person to whom hidden treasure should be handed over . I know where half a million worth lies , and , as I can not use it myself , I thought perhaps the best thing that I could do would be to hand it over to the proper authorities , and then perhaps they would get my sentence shortened for me . ' '' 'Half a million , Small ? ' he gasped , looking hard at me to see if I was in earnest . `` 'Quite that , sir , -- -in jewels and pearls . It lies there ready for any one . And the queer thing about it is that the real owner is outlawed and can not hold property , so that it belongs to the first comer . ' '' 'To government , Small , ' he stammered , -- -'to government . ' But he said it in a halting fashion , and I knew in my heart that I had got him . `` 'You think , then , sir , that I should give the information to the Governor-General ? ' said I , quietly . `` 'Well , well , you must not do anything rash , or that you might repent . Let me hear all about it , Small . Give me the facts . ' '' I told him the whole story , with small changes so that he could not identify the places . When I had finished he stood stock still and full of thought . I could see by the twitch of his lip that there was a struggle going on within him . `` 'This is a very important matter , Small , ' he said , at last . 'You must not say a word to any one about it , and I shall see you again soon . ' '' Two nights later he and his friend Captain Morstan came to my hut in the dead of the night with a lantern . `` 'I want you just to let Captain Morstan hear that story from your own lips , Small , ' said he . `` I repeated it as I had told it before . `` 'It rings true , eh ? ' said he . 'It 's good enough to act upon ? ' '' Captain Morstan nodded . `` 'Look here , Small , ' said the major . 'We have been talking it over , my friend here and I , and we have come to the conclusion that this secret of yours is hardly a government matter , after all , but is a private concern of your own , which of course you have the power of disposing of as you