the Stapletons can be traced for several years , as far back as the school-mastering days , so that he must have been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and wife . This man has disappeared and has escaped from the country . It is suggestive that Anthony is not a common name in England , while Antonio is so in all Spanish or Spanish-American countries . The man , like Mrs. Stapleton herself , spoke good English , but with a curious lisping accent . I have myself seen this old man cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton had marked out . It is very probable , therefore , that in the absence of his master it was he who cared for the hound , though he may never have known the purpose for which the beast was used . `` The Stapletons then went down to Devonshire , whither they were soon followed by Sir Henry and you . One word now as to how I stood myself at that time . It may possibly recur to your memory that when I examined the paper upon which the printed words were fastened I made a close inspection for the water-mark . In doing so I held it within a few inches of my eyes , and was conscious of a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine . There are seventy-five perfumes , which it is very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to distinguish from each other , and cases have more than once within my own experience depended upon their prompt recognition . The scent suggested the presence of a lady , and already my thoughts began to turn towards the Stapletons . Thus I had made certain of the hound , and had guessed at the criminal before ever we went to the west country . `` It was my game to watch Stapleton . It was evident , however , that I could not do this if I were with you , since he would be keenly on his guard . I deceived everybody , therefore , yourself included , and I came down secretly when I was supposed to be in London . My hardships were not so great as you imagined , though such trifling details must never interfere with the investigation of a case . I stayed for the most part at Coombe Tracey , and only used the hut upon the moor when it was necessary to be near the scene of action . Cartwright had come down with me , and in his disguise as a country boy he was of great assistance to me . I was dependent upon him for food and clean linen . When I was watching Stapleton , Cartwright was frequently watching you , so that I was able to keep my hand upon all the strings . `` I have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly , being forwarded instantly from Baker Street to Coombe Tracey . They were of great service to me , and especially that one incidentally truthful piece of biography of Stapleton 's . I was able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew at last exactly how I stood . The case had been considerably complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the relations between him and the Barrymores . This also you cleared up in a very effective way , though I had already come to the same conclusions from my own observations . `` By the time that you discovered me upon the moor I had a complete knowledge of the whole business , but I had not a case which could go to a jury . Even Stapleton 's attempt upon Sir Henry that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict did not help us much in proving murder against our man . There seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red-handed , and to do so we had to use Sir Henry , alone and apparently unprotected , as a bait . We did so , and at the cost of a severe shock to our client we succeeded in completing our case and driving Stapleton to his destruction . That Sir Henry should have been exposed to this is , I must confess , a reproach to my management of the case , but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing spectacle which the beast presented , nor could we predict the fog which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice . We succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and Dr. Mortimer assure me will be a temporary one . A long journey may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered nerves but also from his wounded feelings . His love for the lady was deep and sincere , and to him the saddest part of all this black business was that he should have been deceived by her . `` It only remains to indicate the part which she had played throughout . There can be no doubt that Stapleton exercised an influence over her which may have been love or may have been fear , or very possibly both , since they are by no means incompatible emotions . It was , at least , absolutely effective . At his command she consented to pass as his sister , though he found the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her the direct accessory to murder . She was ready to warn Sir Henry so far as she could without implicating her husband , and again and again she tried to do so . Stapleton himself seems to have been capable of jealousy , and when he saw the baronet paying court to the lady , even though it was part of his own plan , still he could not help interrupting with a passionate outburst which revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner so cleverly concealed . By encouraging the intimacy he made it certain that Sir Henry would frequently come to Merripit House and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he desired . On the day of the crisis , however , his wife turned suddenly against him . She had learned something of the death of the convict , and she knew that the hound was being kept in the outhouse on the evening that Sir Henry was coming to dinner . She taxed her husband with his intended crime , and a furious scene followed in which he showed her for the first time that she had a rival in his love . Her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter hatred , and he saw that she would betray him . He tied her up , therefore , that she might have no chance of warning Sir Henry , and he hoped , no doubt , that when the whole countryside put down the baronet 's death to the curse of his family , as they certainly would do , he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished fact and to keep silent upon what she knew . In this I fancy that in any case he made a miscalculation , and that , if we had not been there , his doom would none the less have been sealed . A woman of Spanish blood does not condone such an injury so lightly . And now , my dear Watson , without referring to my notes , I can not give you a more detailed account of this curious case . I do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained . `` `` He could not hope to frighten Sir Henry to death as he had done the old uncle with his bogie hound . `` `` The beast was savage and half-starved . If its appearance did not frighten its victim to death , at least it would paralyze the resistance which might be offered . `` `` No doubt . There only remains one difficulty . If Stapleton came into the succession , how could he explain the fact that he , the heir , had been living unannounced under another name so close to the property ? How could he claim it without causing suspicion and inquiry ? `` `` It is a formidable difficulty , and I fear that you ask too much when you expect me to solve it . The past and the present are within the field of my inquiry , but what a man may do in the future is a hard question to answer . Mrs. Stapleton has heard her husband discuss the problem on several occasions . There were three possible courses . He might claim the property from South America , establish his identity before the British authorities there and so obtain the fortune without ever coming to England at all , or he might adopt an elaborate disguise during the short time that he need be in London ; or , again , he might furnish an accomplice with the proofs and papers , putting him in as heir , and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income . We can not doubt from what we know of him that he would have found some way out of the difficulty . And now , my dear Watson , we have had some weeks of severe work , and for one evening , I think , we may turn our thoughts into more pleasant channels . I have a box for 'Les Huguenots . ' Have you heard the De Reszkes ? Might I trouble you then to be ready in half an hour , and we can stop at Marcini 's for a little dinner on the way ? '' 