any man of science should commit himself to so ignoble a sentiment . You are in a land which offers such an inducement to the ambitious naturalist as none ever has since the world began , and you suggest leaving it before we have acquired more than the most superficial knowledge of it or of its contents . I expected better things of you , Professor Summerlee . `` `` You must remember , '' said Summerlee , sourly , `` that I have a large class in London who are at present at the mercy of an extremely inefficient locum tenens . This makes my situation different from yours , Professor Challenger , since , so far as I know , you have never been entrusted with any responsible educational work . `` `` Quite so , '' said Challenger . `` I have felt it to be a sacrilege to divert a brain which is capable of the highest original research to any lesser object . That is why I have sternly set my face against any proffered scholastic appointment . `` `` For example ? '' asked Summerlee , with a sneer ; but Lord John hastened to change the conversation . `` I must say , '' said he , `` that I think it would be a mighty poor thing to go back to London before I know a great deal more of this place than I do at present . `` `` I could never dare to walk into the back office of my paper and face old McArdle , '' said I . ( You will excuse the frankness of this report , will you not , sir ? ) `` He 'd never forgive me for leaving such unexhausted copy behind me . Besides , so far as I can see it is not worth discussing , since we ca n't get down , even if we wanted . `` `` Our young friend makes up for many obvious mental lacunae by some measure of primitive common sense , '' remarked Challenger . `` The interests of his deplorable profession are immaterial to us ; but , as he observes , we can not get down in any case , so it is a waste of energy to discuss it . `` `` It is a waste of energy to do anything else , '' growled Summerlee from behind his pipe . `` Let me remind you that we came here upon a perfectly definite mission , entrusted to us at the meeting of the Zoological Institute in London . That mission was to test the truth of Professor Challenger 's statements . Those statements , as I am bound to admit , we are now in a position to endorse . Our ostensible work is therefore done . As to the detail which remains to be worked out upon this plateau , it is so enormous that only a large expedition , with a very special equipment , could hope to cope with it . Should we attempt to do so ourselves , the only possible result must be that we shall never return with the important contribution to science which we have already gained . Professor Challenger has devised means for getting us on to this plateau when it appeared to be inaccessible ; I think that we should now call upon him to use the same ingenuity in getting us back to the world from which we came . `` I confess that as Summerlee stated his view it struck me as altogether reasonable . Even Challenger was affected by the consideration that his enemies would never stand confuted if the confirmation of his statements should never reach those who had doubted them . `` The problem of the descent is at first sight a formidable one , '' said he , `` and yet I can not doubt that the intellect can solve it . I am prepared to agree with our colleague that a protracted stay in Maple White Land is at present inadvisable , and that the question of our return will soon have to be faced . I absolutely refuse to leave , however , until we have made at least a superficial examination of this country , and are able to take back with us something in the nature of a chart . `` Professor Summerlee gave a snort of impatience . `` We have spent two long days in exploration , '' said he , `` and we are no wiser as to the actual geography of the place than when we started . It is clear that it is all thickly wooded , and it would take months to penetrate it and to learn the relations of one part to another . If there were some central peak it would be different , but it all slopes downwards , so far as we can see . The farther we go the less likely it is that we will get any general view . `` It was at that moment that I had my inspiration . My eyes chanced to light upon the enormous gnarled trunk of the gingko tree which cast its huge branches over us . Surely , if its bole exceeded that of all others , its height must do the same . If the rim of the plateau was indeed the highest point , then why should this mighty tree not prove to be a watchtower which commanded the whole country ? Now , ever since I ran wild as a lad in Ireland I have been a bold and skilled tree-climber . My comrades might be my masters on the rocks , but I knew that I would be supreme among those branches . Could I only get my legs on to the lowest of the giant off-shoots , then it would be strange indeed if I could not make my way to the top . My comrades were delighted at my idea . `` Our young friend , '' said Challenger , bunching up the red apples of his cheeks , `` is capable of acrobatic exertions which would be impossible to a man of a more solid , though possibly of a more commanding , appearance . I applaud his resolution . `` `` By George , young fellah , you 've put your hand on it ! '' said Lord John , clapping me on the back . `` How we never came to think of it before I ca n't imagine ! There 's not more than an hour of daylight left , but if you take your notebook you may be able to get some rough sketch of the place . If we put these three ammunition cases under the branch , I will soon hoist you on to it . `` He stood on the boxes while I faced the trunk , and was gently raising me when Challenger sprang forward and gave me such a thrust with his huge hand that he fairly shot me into the tree . With both arms clasping the branch , I scrambled hard with my feet until I had worked , first my body , and then my knees , onto it . There were three excellent off-shoots , like huge rungs of a ladder , above my head , and a tangle of convenient branches beyond , so that I clambered onwards with such speed that I soon lost sight of the ground and had nothing but foliage beneath me . Now and then I encountered a check , and once I had to shin up a creeper for eight or ten feet , but I made excellent progress , and the booming of Challenger 's voice seemed to be a great distance beneath me . The tree was , however , enormous , and , looking upwards , I could see no thinning of the leaves above my head . There was some thick , bush-like clump which seemed to be a parasite upon a branch up which I was swarming . I leaned my head round it in order to see what was beyond , and I nearly fell out of the tree in my surprise and horror at what I saw.A face was gazing into mine -- -at the distance of only a foot or two . The creature that owned it had been crouching behind the parasite , and had looked round it at the same instant that I did . It was a human face -- -or at least it was far more human than any monkey 's that I have ever seen . It was long , whitish , and blotched with pimples , the nose flattened , and the lower jaw projecting , with a bristle of coarse whiskers round the chin . The eyes , which were under thick and heavy brows , were bestial and ferocious , and as it opened its mouth to snarl what sounded like a curse at me I observed that it had curved , sharp canine teeth . For an instant I read hatred and menace in the evil eyes . Then , as quick as a flash , came an expression of overpowering fear . There was a crash of broken boughs as it dived wildly down into the tangle of green . I caught a glimpse of a hairy body like that of a reddish pig , and then it was gone amid a swirl of leaves and branches . `` What 's the matter ? '' shouted Roxton from below . `` Anything wrong with you ? `` `` Did you see it ? '' I cried , with my arms round the branch and all my nerves tingling . `` We heard a row , as if your foot had slipped . What was it ? `` I was so shocked at the sudden and strange appearance of this ape-man that I hesitated whether I should not climb down again and tell my experience to my companions . But I was already so far up the great tree that it seemed a humiliation to return without having carried out my mission.After a long pause , therefore , to recover my breath and my courage , I continued my ascent . Once I put my weight upon a rotten branch and swung for a few seconds by my hands , but in the main it was all easy climbing . Gradually the leaves thinned around me , and I was aware , from the wind upon my face , that I had topped all the trees of the forest . I was determined , however , not to look about me before I had reached the very highest point , so I scrambled on until I had got so far that the topmost branch was bending beneath my weight . There I settled into a convenient fork , and , balancing myself securely , I found myself looking down at a most wonderful panorama of this strange country in which we found ourselves.The sun was just above the western sky-line , and the evening was a particularly bright and clear one , so that the whole extent of the plateau was visible beneath me . It was , as seen from this height , of an oval contour , with a breadth of about thirty miles and a width of twenty . Its general shape was that of a shallow funnel , all the sides sloping down to a considerable lake in the center . This lake may have been ten miles in circumference , and lay very green and beautiful in the evening light , with a thick fringe of reeds at its edges , and with its surface broken by several yellow sandbanks , which