who had risen from his seat . His face might have been chiselled out of marble , so hard and set was its expression , while its eyes glowed with a baleful light . `` Where are you going ? `` `` Never mind , '' he answered ; and , slinging his weapon over his shoulder , strode off down the gorge and so away into the heart of the mountains to the haunts of the wild beasts . Amongst them all there was none so fierce and so dangerous as himself.The prediction of the Mormon was only too well fulfilled . Whether it was the terrible death of her father or the effects of the hateful marriage into which she had been forced , poor Lucy never held up her head again , but pined away and died within a month . Her sottish husband , who had married her principally for the sake of John Ferrier 's property , did not affect any great grief at his bereavement ; but his other wives mourned over her , and sat up with her the night before the burial , as is the Mormon custom . They were grouped round the bier in the early hours of the morning , when , to their inexpressible fear and astonishment , the door was flung open , and a savage-looking , weather-beaten man in tattered garments strode into the room . Without a glance or a word to the cowering women , he walked up to the white silent figure which had once contained the pure soul of Lucy Ferrier . Stooping over her , he pressed his lips reverently to her cold forehead , and then , snatching up her hand , he took the wedding-ring from her finger . `` She shall not be buried in that , '' he cried with a fierce snarl , and before an alarm could be raised sprang down the stairs and was gone . So strange and so brief was the episode , that the watchers might have found it hard to believe it themselves or persuade other people of it , had it not been for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which marked her as having been a bride had disappeared.For some months Jefferson Hope lingered among the mountains , leading a strange wild life , and nursing in his heart the fierce desire for vengeance which possessed him . Tales were told in the City of the weird figure which was seen prowling about the suburbs , and which haunted the lonely mountain gorges . Once a bullet whistled through Stangerson 's window and flattened itself upon the wall within a foot of him . On another occasion , as Drebber passed under a cliff a great boulder crashed down on him , and he only escaped a terrible death by throwing himself upon his face . The two young Mormons were not long in discovering the reason of these attempts upon their lives , and led repeated expeditions into the mountains in the hope of capturing or killing their enemy , but always without success . Then they adopted the precaution of never going out alone or after nightfall , and of having their houses guarded . After a time they were able to relax these measures , for nothing was either heard or seen of their opponent , and they hoped that time had cooled his vindictiveness.Far from doing so , it had , if anything , augmented it . The hunter 's mind was of a hard , unyielding nature , and the predominant idea of revenge had taken such complete possession of it that there was no room for any other emotion . He was , however , above all things practical . He soon realized that even his iron constitution could not stand the incessant strain which he was putting upon it . Exposure and want of wholesome food were wearing him out . If he died like a dog among the mountains , what was to become of his revenge then ? And yet such a death was sure to overtake him if he persisted . He felt that that was to play his enemy 's game , so he reluctantly returned to the old Nevada mines , there to recruit his health and to amass money enough to allow him to pursue his object without privation.His intention had been to be absent a year at the most , but a combination of unforeseen circumstances prevented his leaving the mines for nearly five . At the end of that time , however , his memory of his wrongs and his craving for revenge were quite as keen as on that memorable night when he had stood by John Ferrier 's grave . Disguised , and under an assumed name , he returned to Salt Lake City , careless what became of his own life , as long as he obtained what he knew to be justice . There he found evil tidings awaiting him . There had been a schism among the Chosen People a few months before , some of the younger members of the Church having rebelled against the authority of the Elders , and the result had been the secession of a certain number of the malcontents , who had left Utah and become Gentiles . Among these had been Drebber and Stangerson ; and no one knew whither they had gone . Rumour reported that Drebber had managed to convert a large part of his property into money , and that he had departed a wealthy man , while his companion , Stangerson , was comparatively poor . There was no clue at all , however , as to their whereabouts.Many a man , however vindictive , would have abandoned all thought of revenge in the face of such a difficulty , but Jefferson Hope never faltered for a moment . With the small competence he possessed , eked out by such employment as he could pick up , he travelled from town to town through the United States in quest of his enemies . Year passed into year , his black hair turned grizzled , but still he wandered on , a human bloodhound , with his mind wholly set upon the one object upon which he had devoted his life . At last his perseverance was rewarded . It was but a glance of a face in a window , but that one glance told him that Cleveland in Ohio possessed the men whom he was in pursuit of . He returned to his miserable lodgings with his plan of vengeance all arranged . It chanced , however , that Drebber , looking from his window , had recognized the vagrant in the street , and had read murder in his eyes . He hurried before a justice of the peace , accompanied by Stangerson , who had become his private secretary , and represented to him that they were in danger of their lives from the jealousy and hatred of an old rival . That evening Jefferson Hope was taken into custody , and not being able to find sureties , was detained for some weeks . When at last he was liberated , it was only to find that Drebber 's house was deserted , and that he and his secretary had departed for Europe.Again the avenger had been foiled , and again his concentrated hatred urged him to continue the pursuit . Funds were wanting , however , and for some time he had to return to work , saving every dollar for his approaching journey . At last , having collected enough to keep life in him , he departed for Europe , and tracked his enemies from city to city , working his way in any menial capacity , but never overtaking the fugitives . When he reached St. Petersburg they had departed for Paris ; and when he followed them there he learned that they had just set off for Copenhagen . At the Danish capital he was again a few days late , for they had journeyed on to London , where he at last succeeded in running them to earth . As to what occurred there , we can not do better than quote the old hunter 's own account , as duly recorded in Dr. Watson 's Journal , to which we are already under such obligations.OUR prisoner 's furious resistance did not apparently indicate any ferocity in his disposition towards ourselves , for on finding himself powerless , he smiled in an affable manner , and expressed his hopes that he had not hurt any of us in the scuffle . `` I guess you 're going to take me to the police-station , '' he remarked to Sherlock Holmes . `` My cab 's at the door . If you 'll loose my legs I 'll walk down to it . I 'm not so light to lift as I used to be . `` Gregson and Lestrade exchanged glances as if they thought this proposition rather a bold one ; but Holmes at once took the prisoner at his word , and loosened the towel which we had bound round his ancles . 23 He rose and stretched his legs , as though to assure himself that they were free once more . I remember that I thought to myself , as I eyed him , that I had seldom seen a more powerfully built man ; and his dark sunburned face bore an expression of determination and energy which was as formidable as his personal strength . `` If there 's a vacant place for a chief of the police , I reckon you are the man for it , '' he said , gazing with undisguised admiration at my fellow-lodger . `` The way you kept on my trail was a caution . `` `` You had better come with me , '' said Holmes to the two detectives . `` I can drive you , '' said Lestrade. '' Good ! and Gregson can come inside with me . You too , Doctor , you have taken an interest in the case and may as well stick to us . `` I assented gladly , and we all descended together . Our prisoner made no attempt at escape , but stepped calmly into the cab which had been his , and we followed him . Lestrade mounted the box , whipped up the horse , and brought us in a very short time to our destination . We were ushered into a small chamber where a police Inspector noted down our prisoner 's name and the names of the men with whose murder he had been charged . The official was a white-faced unemotional man , who went through his duties in a dull mechanical way . `` The prisoner will be put before the magistrates in the course of the week , '' he said ; `` in the mean time , Mr. Jefferson Hope , have you anything that you wish to say ? I must warn you that your words will be taken down , and may be used against you . `` `` I 've got a good deal to say , '' our prisoner said slowly . `` I want to tell you gentlemen all about it . `` `` Had n't you better reserve that for your trial ? '' asked the Inspector . `` I may never be tried , '' he answered . `` You need n't look startled . It is n't suicide I am thinking of . Are you a Doctor ? '' He turned his fierce dark eyes upon me as he asked this last question . `` Yes