feast of St. Luke , for there is much to be done in the time . You will have leisure , therefore , if it please you to take service under me , in which to learn your devoir . Bertrand , my daughter 's page , is hot to go ; but in sooth he is over young for such rough work as may be before us . `` `` And I have one favor to crave from you , '' added the lady of the castle , as Alleyne turned to leave their presence . `` You have , as I understand , much learning which you have acquired at Beaulieu . `` `` Little enough , lady , compared with those who were my teachers . `` `` Yet enough for my purpose , I doubt not . For I would have you give an hour or two a day whilst you are with us in discoursing with my daughter , the Lady Maude ; for she is somewhat backward , I fear , and hath no love for letters , save for these poor fond romances , which do but fill her empty head with dreams of enchanted maidens and of errant cavaliers . Father Christopher comes over after nones from the priory , but he is stricken with years and slow of speech , so that she gets small profit from his teaching . I would have you do what you can with her , and with Agatha my young tire-woman , and with Dorothy Pierpont . `` And so Alleyne found himself not only chosen as squire to a knight but also as squire to three damosels , which was even further from the part which he had thought to play in the world . Yet he could but agree to do what he might , and so went forth from the castle hall with his face flushed and his head in a whirl at the thought of the strange and perilous paths which his feet were destined to tread.And now there came a time of stir and bustle , of furbishing of arms and clang of hammer from all the southland counties . Fast spread the tidings from thorpe to thorpe and from castle to castle , that the old game was afoot once more , and the lions and lilies to be in the field with the early spring . Great news this for that fierce old country , whose trade for a generation had been war , her exports archers and her imports prisoners . For six years her sons had chafed under an unwonted peace . Now they flew to their arms as to their birthright . The old soldiers of Crecy , of Nogent , and of Poictiers were glad to think that they might hear the war-trumpet once more , and gladder still were the hot youth who had chafed for years under the martial tales of their sires . To pierce the great mountains of the south , to fight the tamers of the fiery Moors , to follow the greatest captain of the age , to find sunny cornfields and vineyards , when the marches of Picardy and Normandy were as rare and bleak as the Jedburgh forests -- -here was a golden prospect for a race of warriors . From sea to sea there was stringing of bows in the cottage and clang of steel in the castle.Nor did it take long for every stronghold to pour forth its cavalry , and every hamlet its footmen . Through the late autumn and the early winter every road and country lane resounded with nakir and trumpet , with the neigh of the war-horse and the clatter of marching men . From the Wrekin in the Welsh marches to the Cotswolds in the west or Butser in the south , there was no hill-top from which the peasant might not have seen the bright shimmer of arms , the toss and flutter of plume and of pensil . From bye-path , from woodland clearing , or from winding moor-side track these little rivulets of steel united in the larger roads to form a broader stream , growing ever fuller and larger as it approached the nearest or most commodious seaport . And there all day , and day after day , there was bustle and crowding and labor , while the great ships loaded up , and one after the other spread their white pinions and darted off to the open sea , amid the clash of cymbals and rolling of drums and lusty shouts of those who went and of those who waited . From Orwell to the Dart there was no port which did not send forth its little fleet , gay with streamer and bunting , as for a joyous festival . Thus in the season of the waning days the might of England put forth on to the waters.In the ancient and populous county of Hampshire there was no lack of leaders or of soldiers for a service which promised either honor or profit . In the north the Saracen 's head of the Brocas and the scarlet fish of the De Roches were waving over a strong body of archers from Holt , Woolmer , and Harewood forests . De Borhunte was up in the east , and Sir John de Montague in the west . Sir Luke de Ponynges , Sir Thomas West , Sir Maurice de Bruin , Sir Arthur Lipscombe , Sir Walter Ramsey , and stout Sir Oliver Buttesthorn were all marching south with levies from Andover , Arlesford , Odiham and Winchester , while from Sussex came Sir John Clinton , Sir Thomas Cheyne , and Sir John Fallislee , with a troop of picked men-at-arms , making for their port at Southampton . Greatest of all the musters , however , was that of Twynham Castle , for the name and the fame of Sir Nigel Loring drew towards him the keenest and boldest spirits , all eager to serve under so valiant a leader . Archers from the New Forest and the Forest of Bere , billmen from the pleasant country which is watered by the Stour , the Avon , and the Itchen , young cavaliers from the ancient Hampshire houses , all were pushing for Christchurch to take service under the banner of the five scarlet roses.And now , could Sir Nigel have shown the bachelles of land which the laws of rank required , he might well have cut his forked pennon into a square banner , and taken such a following into the field as would have supported the dignity of a banneret . But poverty was heavy upon him , his land was scant , his coffers empty , and the very castle which covered him the holding of another . Sore was his heart when he saw rare bowmen and war-hardened spearmen turned away from his gates , for the lack of the money which might equip and pay them . Yet the letter which Aylward had brought him gave him powers which he was not slow to use . In it Sir Claude Latour , the Gascon lieutenant of the White Company , assured him that there remained in his keeping enough to fit out a hundred archers and twenty men-at-arms , which , joined to the three hundred veteran companions already in France , would make a force which any leader might be proud to command . Carefully and sagaciously the veteran knight chose out his men from the swarm of volunteers . Many an anxious consultation he held with Black Simon , Sam Aylward , and other of his more experienced followers , as to who should come and who should stay . By All Saints ' day , however ere the last leaves had fluttered to earth in the Wilverley and Holmesley glades , he had filled up his full numbers , and mustered under his banner as stout a following of Hampshire foresters as ever twanged their war-bows . Twenty men-at-arms , too , well mounted and equipped , formed the cavalry of the party , while young Peter Terlake of Fareham , and Walter Ford of Botley , the martial sons of martial sires , came at their own cost to wait upon Sir Nigel and to share with Alleyne Edricson the duties of his squireship.Yet , even after the enrolment , there was much to be done ere the party could proceed upon its way . For armor , swords , and lances , there was no need to take much forethought , for they were to be had both better and cheaper in Bordeaux than in England . With the long-bow , however , it was different . Yew staves indeed might be got in Spain , but it was well to take enough and to spare with them . Then three spare cords should be carried for each bow , with a great store of arrow-heads , besides the brigandines of chain mail , the wadded steel caps , and the brassarts or arm-guards , which were the proper equipment of the archer . Above all , the women for miles round were hard at work cutting the white surcoats which were the badge of the Company , and adorning them with the red lion of St. George upon the centre of the breast . When all was completed and the muster called in the castle yard the oldest soldier of the French wars was fain to confess that he had never looked upon a better equipped or more warlike body of men , from the old knight with his silk jupon , sitting his great black war-horse in the front of them , to Hordle John , the giant recruit , who leaned carelessly upon a huge black bow-stave in the rear . Of the six score , fully half had seen service before , while a fair sprinkling were men who had followed the wars all their lives , and had a hand in those battles which had made the whole world ring with the fame and the wonder of the island infantry.Six long weeks were taken in these preparations , and it was close on Martinmas ere all was ready for a start . Nigh two months had Alleyne Edricson been in Castle Twynham -- -months which were fated to turn the whole current of his life , to divert it from that dark and lonely bourne towards which it tended , and to guide it into freer and more sunlit channels . Already he had learned to bless his father for that wise provision which had made him seek to know the world ere he had ventured to renounce it.For it was a different place from that which he had pictured -- -very different from that which he had heard described when the master of the novices held forth to his charges upon the ravening wolves who lurked for them beyond the peaceful folds of Beaulieu . There was cruelty in it , doubtless , and lust and sin and sorrow ; but were there not virtues to atone , robust positive virtues which did not shrink from temptation , which held their own in all the rough blasts of the work-a-day world ? How colorless by contrast appeared the sinlessness which came from inability to sin , the conquest which was attained by flying from the enemy ! Monk-bred as he was , Alleyne had native shrewdness and a mind which was young enough to form new conclusions and to outgrow old ones . He could not fail to see that the men with whom he was thrown in contact , rough-tongued , fierce and quarrelsome as they were , were yet of deeper nature