did you ? '' rumbled our host , his eyelids beginning to droop . `` You said , Summerlee , that there was no possible truth in his contention . `` `` Dear me ! '' said Challenger , puffing out his chest and stroking his beard . `` No possible truth ! I seem to have heard the words before . And may I ask with what arguments the great and famous Professor Summerlee proceeded to demolish the humble individual who had ventured to express an opinion upon a matter of scientific possibility ? Perhaps before he exterminates that unfortunate nonentity he will condescend to give some reasons for the adverse views which he has formed . `` He bowed and shrugged and spread open his hands as he spoke with his elaborate and elephantine sarcasm . `` The reason was simple enough , '' said the dogged Summerlee . `` I contended that if the ether surrounding the earth was so toxic in one quarter that it produced dangerous symptoms , it was hardly likely that we three in the railway carriage should be entirely unaffected . `` The explanation only brought uproarious merriment from Challenger . He laughed until everything in the room seemed to rattle and quiver . `` Our worthy Summerlee is , not for the first time , somewhat out of touch with the facts of the situation , '' said he at last , mopping his heated brow . `` Now , gentlemen , I can not make my point better than by detailing to you what I have myself done this morning . You will the more easily condone any mental aberration upon your own part when you realize that even I have had moments when my balance has been disturbed . We have had for some years in this household a housekeeper -- -one Sarah , with whose second name I have never attempted to burden my memory . She is a woman of a severe and forbidding aspect , prim and demure in her bearing , very impassive in her nature , and never known within our experience to show signs of any emotion . As I sat alone at my breakfast -- -Mrs . Challenger is in the habit of keeping her room of a morning -- -it suddenly entered my head that it would be entertaining and instructive to see whether I could find any limits to this woman 's inperturbability . I devised a simple but effective experiment . Having upset a small vase of flowers which stood in the centre of the cloth , I rang the bell and slipped under the table . She entered and , seeing the room empty , imagined that I had withdrawn to the study . As I had expected , she approached and leaned over the table to replace the vase . I had a vision of a cotton stocking and an elastic-sided boot . Protruding my head , I sank my teeth into the calf of her leg . The experiment was successful beyond belief . For some moments she stood paralyzed , staring down at my head . Then with a shriek she tore herself free and rushed from the room . I pursued her with some thoughts of an explanation , but she flew down the drive , and some minutes afterwards I was able to pick her out with my field-glasses travelling very rapidly in a south-westerly direction . I tell you the anecdote for what it is worth . I drop it into your brains and await its germination . Is it illuminative ? Has it conveyed anything to your minds ? What doyouthink of it , Lord John ? `` Lord John shook his head gravely . `` You 'll be gettin ' into serious trouble some of these days if you do n't put a brake on , '' said he . `` Perhaps you have some observation to make , Summerlee ? `` `` You should drop all work instantly , Challenger , and take three months in a German watering-place , '' said he. '' Profound ! Profound ! '' cried Challenger . `` Now , my young friend , is it possible that wisdom may come from you where your seniors have so signally failed ? `` And it did . I say it with all modesty , but it did . Of course , it all seems obvious enough to you who know what occurred , but it was not so very clear when everything was new . But it came on me suddenly with the full force of absolute conviction. '' Poison ! '' I cried.Then , even as I said the word , my mind flashed back over the whole morning 's experiences , past Lord John with his buffalo , past my own hysterical tears , past the outrageous conduct of Professor Summerlee , to the queer happenings in London , the row in the park , the driving of the chauffeur , the quarrel at the oxygen warehouse . Everything fitted suddenly into its place . `` Of course , '' I cried again . `` It is poison . We are all poisoned . `` `` Exactly , '' said Challenger , rubbing his hands , `` we are all poisoned . Our planet has swum into the poison belt of ether , and is now flying deeper into it at the rate of some millions of miles a minute . Our young friend has expressed the cause of all our troubles and perplexities in a single word , 'poison . ' '' We looked at each other in amazed silence . No comment seemed to meet the situation . `` There is a mental inhibition by which such symptoms can be checked and controlled , '' said Challenger . `` I can not expect to find it developed in all of you to the same point which it has reached in me , for I suppose that the strength of our different mental processes bears some proportion to each other . But no doubt it is appreciable even in our young friend here . After the little outburst of high spirits which so alarmed my domestic I sat down and reasoned with myself . I put it to myself that I had never before felt impelled to bite any of my household . The impulse had then been an abnormal one . In an instant I perceived the truth . My pulse upon examination was ten beats above the usual , and my reflexes were increased . I called upon my higher and saner self , the real G. E. C. , seated serene and impregnable behind all mere molecular disturbance . I summoned him , I say , to watch the foolish mental tricks which the poison would play . I found that I was indeed the master . I could recognize and control a disordered mind . It was a remarkable exhibition of the victory of mind over matter , for it was a victory over that particular form of matter which is most intimately connected with mind . I might almost say that mind was at fault and that personality controlled it . Thus , when my wife came downstairs and I was impelled to slip behind the door and alarm her by some wild cry as she entered , I was able to stifle the impulse and to greet her with dignity and restraint . An overpowering desire to quack like a duck was met and mastered in the same fashion . `` Later , when I descended to order the car and found Austin bending over it absorbed in repairs , I controlled my open hand even after I had lifted it and refrained from giving him an experience which would possibly have caused him to follow in the steps of the housekeeper . On the contrary , I touched him on the shoulder and ordered the car to be at the door in time to meet your train . At the present instant I am most forcibly tempted to take Professor Summerlee by that silly old beard of his and to shake his head violently backwards and forwards . And yet , as you see , I am perfectly restrained . Let me commend my example to you . `` `` I 'll look out for that buffalo , '' said Lord John . `` And I for the football match . `` `` It may be that you are right , Challenger , '' said Summerlee in a chastened voice . `` I am willing to admit that my turn of mind is critical rather than constructive and that I am not a ready convert to any new theory , especially when it happens to be so unusual and fantastic as this one . However , as I cast my mind back over the events of the morning , and as I reconsider the fatuous conduct of my companions , I find it easy to believe that some poison of an exciting kind was responsible for their symptoms . `` Challenger slapped his colleague good-humouredly upon the shoulder . `` We progress , '' said he . `` Decidedly we progress . `` `` And pray , sir , '' asked Summerlee humbly , `` what is your opinion as to the present outlook ? `` `` With your permission I will say a few words upon that subject . '' He seated himself upon his desk , his short , stumpy legs swinging in front of him . `` We are assisting at a tremendous and awful function . It is , in my opinion , the end of the world . `` The end of the world ! Our eyes turned to the great bow-window and we looked out at the summer beauty of the country-side , the long slopes of heather , the great country-houses , the cozy farms , the pleasure-seekers upon the links.The end of the world ! One had often heard the words , but the idea that they could ever have an immediate practical significance , that it should not be at some vague date , but now , to-day , that was a tremendous , a staggering thought . We were all struck solemn and waited in silence for Challenger to continue . His overpowering presence and appearance lent such force to the solemnity of his words that for a moment all the crudities and absurdities of the man vanished , and he loomed before us as something majestic and beyond the range of ordinary humanity . Then to me , at least , there came back the cheering recollection of how twice since we had entered the room he had roared with laughter . Surely , I thought , there are limits to mental detachment . The crisis can not be so great or so pressing after all . `` You will conceive a bunch of grapes , '' said he , `` which are covered by some infinitesimal but noxious bacillus . The gardener passes it through a disinfecting medium . It may be that he desires his grapes to be cleaner . It may be that he needs space to breed some fresh bacillus less noxious than the last . He dips it into the poison and they are gone . Our Gardener is , in my opinion , about to dip the solar system , and the human bacillus , the little mortal vibrio which twisted and wriggled upon the outer rind of the earth , will in an instant be sterilized out of existence . `` Again there was silence . It was broken by the high trill of the telephone-bell . `` There is one of our bacilli squeaking for help