and occasionally led to more substantial kindness in return.The gallant major 's figure was a familiar one in the card-room of theRag and Bobtail , at the bow-window of the Jeunesse Doree . Tall and pompous , with a portly frame and a puffy clean-shaven face which peered over an abnormally high collar and old-fashioned linen cravat , he stood as a very type and emblem of staid middle-aged respectability . The major 's hat was always of the glossiest , the major 's coat was without a wrinkle , and , in short , from the summit of the major 's bald head to his bulbous finger-tips and his gouty toes , there was not a flaw which the most severe critic of deportment -- -even the illustrious Turveydrop himself -- -could have detected . Let us add that the conversation of the major was as irreproachable as his person -- -that he was a distinguished soldier and an accomplished traveller , with a retentive memory and a mind stuffed with the good things of a lifetime . Combine all these qualities , and one would naturally regard the major as a most desirable acquaintance.It is painful to have to remark , however , that , self-evident as this proposition might appear , it was vehemently contradicted by some of the initiated . There were rumours concerning the major which seriously compromised his private character . Indeed , such a pitch had they reached that when that gallant officer put himself forward as a candidate for a certain select club , he had , although proposed by a lord and seconded by a baronet , been most ignominiously pilled . In public the major affected to laugh over this social failure , and to regard it as somewhat in the nature of a practical joke , but privately he was deeply incensed . One day he momentarily dropped his veil of unconcern while playing billiards with the Honourable Fungus Brown , who was generally credited with having had some hand in the major 's exclusion . `` Be Ged ! sir , '' the veteran suddenly exclaimed , inflating his chest and turning his apoplectic face upon his companion , `` in the old days I would have called the lot of you out , sir , every demned one , beginning with the committee and working down ; I would , be George ! '' At which savage attack the Honourable Fungus 's face grew as white as the major 's was red , and he began to wish that he had been more reserved in his confidences to some of his acquaintances respecting the exclusiveness of the club in question , or at least refrained from holding up the major 's pilling as a proof thereof.The cause of this vague feeling of distrust which had gone abroad concerning the old soldier was no very easy matter to define . It is true that he was known to have a book on every race , and to have secret means of information from stud-grooms and jockeys which occasionally stood him in good stead ; but this was no uncommon thing among the men with whom he consorted . Again , it is true that Major Clutterbuck was much addicted to whist , with guinea points , and to billiard matches for substantial sums , but these stimulating recreations are also habitual to many men who have led eventful lives and require a strong seasoning to make ordinary existence endurable . Perhaps one reason may have been that the major 's billiard play in public varied to an extraordinary degree , so that on different occasions he had appeared to be aiming at the process termed by the initiated `` getting on the money . '' The warm friendships , too , which the old soldier had contracted with sundry vacuous and sappy youths , who were kindly piloted by him into quasi-fashionable life and shown how and when to spend their money , had been most uncharitably commented upon . Perhaps the vagueness about the major 's private residence and the mystery which hung over him outside his clubs may also have excited prejudice against him . Still , however his detractors might malign him , they could not attempt to deny the fact that Tobias Clutterbuck was the third son of the Honourable Charles Clutterbuck , who again was the second son of the Earl of Dunross , one of the most ancient of Hibernian families . This pedigree the old soldier took care to explain to every one about him , more particularly to the sappy youths aforementioned.It chanced that on the afternoon of which we speak the major was engrossed by this very subject . Standing at the head of the broad stone steps which lead up to the palatial edifice which its occupiers irreverently term theRag and Bobtail , he was explaining to a bull-necked , olive-complexioned young man the series of marriages and inter-marriages which had culminated in the production of his own portly , stiff-backed figure . His companion , who was none other than Ezra Girdlestone , of the great African firm of that name , leaned against one of the pillars of the portico and listened gloomily to the major 's family reminiscences , giving an occasional yawn which he made no attempt to conceal . `` It 's as plain as the fingers of me hand , '' the old soldier said in a wheezy muffled brogue , as if he were speaking from under a feather-bed . `` See here now , Girdlestone -- -this is Miss Letitia Snackles of Snackleton , a cousin of old Sir Joseph . '' The major tapped his thumb with the silver head of his walking-stick to represent the maiden Snackles . `` She marries Crawford , of the Blues -- -one o ' the Warwickshire Crawfords ; that 's him '' -- -here he elevated his stubby forefinger ; `` and here 's their three children , Jemima , Harold , and John . '' Up went three other fingers . `` Jemima Crawford grows up , and then Charley Clutterbuck runs away with her . This other thumb o ' mine will stand for that young divil Charley , and then me fingers -- - '' '' Oh , hang your fingers , '' Girdlestone exclaimed with emphasis . `` It 's very interesting , major , but it would be more intelligible if you wrote it out . `` `` And so I shall , me boy ! '' the major cried enthusiastically , by no means abashed at the sudden interruption . `` I 'll draw it up on a bit o ' foolscap paper . Let 's see ; Fenchurch Street , eh ? Address to the offices , of course . Though , for that matter , 'Girdlestone , London , ' would foind you . I was spakin ' of ye to Sir Musgrave Moore , of the Rifles , the other day , and he knew you at once . 'Girdlestone ? ' says he . 'The same , ' says I . 'A merchant prince ? ' says he . 'The same , ' says I . 'I 'd be proud to meet him , ' says he . 'And you shall , ' says I . He 's the best blood of county Waterford . `` `` More blood than money , I suppose , '' the young man said , smoothing out his crisp black moustache . `` Bedad , you 've about hit it there . He went to California , and came back with five and twinty thousand pounds . I met him in Liverpool the day he arrived . 'This is no good to me , Toby , ' says he . 'Why not ? ' I asks . 'Not enough , ' says he ; 'just enough to unsettle me . ' 'What then ? ' says I . 'Put it on the favourite for the St. Leger , ' says he . And he did too , every pinny of it , and the horse was beat on the post by a short head . He dropped the lot in one day . A fact , sir , 'pon me honour ! Came to me next day . 'Nothing left ! ' says he . 'Nothing ? ' says I . 'Only one thing , ' says he . 'Suicide ? ' says I . 'Marriage , ' says he . Within a month he was married to the second Miss Shuttleworth , who had five thou . in her own right , and five more when Lord Dungeness turns up his toes. '' '' Indeed ? '' said his companion languidly . `` Fact , 'pon me honour ! By the way -- -ah , here comes Lord Henry Richardson . How d 'ye do , Richardson , how d 'ye do ? Ged , I remember Richardson when he was a tow-headed boy at Clongowes , and I used to lam him with a bootjack for his cheek . Ah , yes ; I was going to say -- -it seems a demned awkward incident -- -ha ! ha ! -- -ridiculous , but annoying , you know . The fact is , me boy , coming away in a hurry from me little place , I left me purse on the drawers in the bedroom , and here 's Jorrocks up in the billiard-room afther challenging me to play for a tenner -- -but I wo n't without having the money in me pocket . Tobias Clutterbuck may be poor , me dear friend , but '' -- -and here he puffed out his chest and tapped on it with his round , sponge-like fist -- - '' he 's honest , and pays debts of honour on the nail . No , sir , there 's no one can say a word against Tobias , except that he 's a half-pay old fool with more heart than brains . However , '' he added , suddenly dropping the sentimental and coming back to the practical , `` if you , me dear boy , can obloige me with the money until to-morrow morning , I 'll play Jorrocks with pleasure . There 's not many men that I 'd ask such a favour of , and even from you I 'd never accept anything more than a mere timporary convanience . `` `` You may stake your life on that , '' Ezra Girdlestone said with a sneer , looking sullenly down and tracing figures with the end of his stick on the stone steps . `` You 'll never get the chance . I make it a rule never to lend any one money , either for short or long periods . `` `` And you wo n't let me have this throifling accommodation ? `` `` No , '' the young man said decisively.For a moment the major 's brick-coloured , weather-beaten face assumed an even darker tint , and his small dark eyes looked out angrily from under his shaggy brows at his youthful companion . He managed to suppress the threatened explosion , however , and burst into a loud roar of laughter . `` 'Pon me sowl ! '' he wheezed , poking the young man in the ribs with his stick , an implement which he had grasped a moment before as though he meditated putting it to a less pacific use , `` you young divils of business-men are too much for poor old Tobias . Ged , sir , to think of being stuck in the mud for the want of a paltry tenner ! Tommy Heathcote will laugh when he hears of it