and this committee is here to try it . You walk , sir , with your judges . `` `` Dear me ! '' said Challenger , seating himself on the side of one of the canoes . `` In that case you will , of course , go on your way , and I will follow at my leisure . If I am not the leader you can not expect me to lead . `` Thank heaven that there were two sane men -- -Lord John Roxton and myself -- -to prevent the petulance and folly of our learned Professors from sending us back empty-handed to London . Such arguing and pleading and explaining before we could get them mollified ! Then at last Summerlee , with his sneer and his pipe , would move forwards , and Challenger would come rolling and grumbling after . By some good fortune we discovered about this time that both our savants had the very poorest opinion of Dr. Illingworth of Edinburgh . Thenceforward that was our one safety , and every strained situation was relieved by our introducing the name of the Scotch zoologist , when both our Professors would form a temporary alliance and friendship in their detestation and abuse of this common rival.Advancing in single file along the bank of the stream , we soon found that it narrowed down to a mere brook , and finally that it lost itself in a great green morass of sponge-like mosses , into which we sank up to our knees . The place was horribly haunted by clouds of mosquitoes and every form of flying pest , so we were glad to find solid ground again and to make a circuit among the trees , which enabled us to outflank this pestilent morass , which droned like an organ in the distance , so loud was it with insect life.On the second day after leaving our canoes we found that the whole character of the country changed . Our road was persistently upwards , and as we ascended the woods became thinner and lost their tropical luxuriance . The huge trees of the alluvial Amazonian plain gave place to the Phoenix and coco palms , growing in scattered clumps , with thick brushwood between . In the damper hollows the Mauritia palms threw out their graceful drooping fronds . We traveled entirely by compass , and once or twice there were differences of opinion between Challenger and the two Indians , when , to quote the Professor 's indignant words , the whole party agreed to `` trust the fallacious instincts of undeveloped savages rather than the highest product of modern European culture . '' That we were justified in doing so was shown upon the third day , when Challenger admitted that he recognized several landmarks of his former journey , and in one spot we actually came upon four fire-blackened stones , which must have marked a camping-place.The road still ascended , and we crossed a rock-studded slope which took two days to traverse . The vegetation had again changed , and only the vegetable ivory tree remained , with a great profusion of wonderful orchids , among which I learned to recognize the rare Nuttonia Vexillaria and the glorious pink and scarlet blossoms of Cattleya and odontoglossum . Occasional brooks with pebbly bottoms and fern-draped banks gurgled down the shallow gorges in the hill , and offered good camping-grounds every evening on the banks of some rock-studded pool , where swarms of little blue-backed fish , about the size and shape of English trout , gave us a delicious supper.On the ninth day after leaving the canoes , having done , as I reckon , about a hundred and twenty miles , we began to emerge from the trees , which had grown smaller until they were mere shrubs . Their place was taken by an immense wilderness of bamboo , which grew so thickly that we could only penetrate it by cutting a pathway with the machetes and billhooks of the Indians . It took us a long day , traveling from seven in the morning till eight at night , with only two breaks of one hour each , to get through this obstacle . Anything more monotonous and wearying could not be imagined , for , even at the most open places , I could not see more than ten or twelve yards , while usually my vision was limited to the back of Lord John 's cotton jacket in front of me , and to the yellow wall within a foot of me on either side . From above came one thin knife-edge of sunshine , and fifteen feet over our heads one saw the tops of the reeds swaying against the deep blue sky . I do not know what kind of creatures inhabit such a thicket , but several times we heard the plunging of large , heavy animals quite close to us . From their sounds Lord John judged them to be some form of wild cattle . Just as night fell we cleared the belt of bamboos , and at once formed our camp , exhausted by the interminable day.Early next morning we were again afoot , and found that the character of the country had changed once again . Behind us was the wall of bamboo , as definite as if it marked the course of a river . In front was an open plain , sloping slightly upwards and dotted with clumps of tree-ferns , the whole curving before us until it ended in a long , whale-backed ridge . This we reached about midday , only to find a shallow valley beyond , rising once again into a gentle incline which led to a low , rounded sky-line . It was here , while we crossed the first of these hills , that an incident occurred which may or may not have been important.Professor Challenger , who with the two local Indians was in the van of the party , stopped suddenly and pointed excitedly to the right . As he did so we saw , at the distance of a mile or so , something which appeared to be a huge gray bird flap slowly up from the ground and skim smoothly off , flying very low and straight , until it was lost among the tree-ferns . `` Did you see it ? '' cried Challenger , in exultation . `` Summerlee , did you see it ? `` His colleague was staring at the spot where the creature had disappeared . `` What do you claim that it was ? '' he asked . `` To the best of my belief , a pterodactyl . `` Summerlee burst into derisive laughter `` A pter-fiddlestick ! '' said he . `` It was a stork , if ever I saw one . `` Challenger was too furious to speak . He simply swung his pack upon his back and continued upon his march . Lord John came abreast of me , however , and his face was more grave than was his wont . He had his Zeiss glasses in his hand . `` I focused it before it got over the trees , '' said he . `` I wo n't undertake to say what it was , but I 'll risk my reputation as a sportsman that it was n't any bird that ever I clapped eyes on in my life . `` So there the matter stands . Are we really just at the edge of the unknown , encountering the outlying pickets of this lost world of which our leader speaks ? I give you the incident as it occurred and you will know as much as I do . It stands alone , for we saw nothing more which could be called remarkable.And now , my readers , if ever I have any , I have brought you up the broad river , and through the screen of rushes , and down the green tunnel , and up the long slope of palm trees , and through the bamboo brake , and across the plain of tree-ferns . At last our destination lay in full sight of us . When we had crossed the second ridge we saw before us an irregular , palm-studded plain , and then the line of high red cliffs which I have seen in the picture . There it lies , even as I write , and there can be no question that it is the same . At the nearest point it is about seven miles from our present camp , and it curves away , stretching as far as I can see . Challenger struts about like a prize peacock , and Summerlee is silent , but still sceptical . Another day should bring some of our doubts to an end . Meanwhile , as Jose , whose arm was pierced by a broken bamboo , insists upon returning , I send this letter back in his charge , and only hope that it may eventually come to hand . I will write again as the occasion serves . I have enclosed with this a rough chart of our journey , which may have the effect of making the account rather easier to understand.A dreadful thing has happened to us . Who could have foreseen it ? I can not foresee any end to our troubles . It may be that we are condemned to spend our whole lives in this strange , inaccessible place . I am still so confused that I can hardly think clearly of the facts of the present or of the chances of the future . To my astounded senses the one seems most terrible and the other as black as night.No men have ever found themselves in a worse position ; nor is there any use in disclosing to you our exact geographical situation and asking our friends for a relief party . Even if they could send one , our fate will in all human probability be decided long before it could arrive in South America.We are , in truth , as far from any human aid as if we were in the moon . If we are to win through , it is only our own qualities which can save us . I have as companions three remarkable men , men of great brain-power and of unshaken courage . There lies our one and only hope . It is only when I look upon the untroubled faces of my comrades that I see some glimmer through the darkness . Outwardly I trust that I appear as unconcerned as they . Inwardly I am filled with apprehension.Let me give you , with as much detail as I can , the sequence of events which have led us to this catastrophe.When I finished my last letter I stated that we were within seven miles from an enormous line of ruddy cliffs , which encircled , beyond all doubt , the plateau of which Professor Challenger spoke . Their height , as we approached them , seemed to me in some places to be greater than he had stated -- -running up in parts to at least a thousand feet -- -and they were curiously striated , in a manner which is , I believe , characteristic of basaltic upheavals . Something of the sort is to be seen in Salisbury Crags at Edinburgh . The summit showed every sign of a luxuriant vegetation , with bushes near the edge , and farther back many high trees . There was no indication of any life that we could see.That night we pitched our camp immediately under the cliff -- -a most wild and desolate spot . The crags