. He answered , you remember , in the negative . `` I then proceeded to make a careful examination of the room , which confirmed me in my opinion as to the murderer 's height , and furnished me with the additional details as to the Trichinopoly cigar and the length of his nails . I had already come to the conclusion , since there were no signs of a struggle , that the blood which covered the floor had burst from the murderer 's nose in his excitement . I could perceive that the track of blood coincided with the track of his feet . It is seldom that any man , unless he is very full-blooded , breaks out in this way through emotion , so I hazarded the opinion that the criminal was probably a robust and ruddy-faced man . Events proved that I had judged correctly . `` Having left the house , I proceeded to do what Gregson had neglected . I telegraphed to the head of the police at Cleveland , limiting my enquiry to the circumstances connected with the marriage of Enoch Drebber . The answer was conclusive . It told me that Drebber had already applied for the protection of the law against an old rival in love , named Jefferson Hope , and that this same Hope was at present in Europe . I knew now that I held the clue to the mystery in my hand , and all that remained was to secure the murderer . `` I had already determined in my own mind that the man who had walked into the house with Drebber , was none other than the man who had driven the cab . The marks in the road showed me that the horse had wandered on in a way which would have been impossible had there been anyone in charge of it . Where , then , could the driver be , unless he were inside the house ? Again , it is absurd to suppose that any sane man would carry out a deliberate crime under the very eyes , as it were , of a third person , who was sure to betray him . Lastly , supposing one man wished to dog another through London , what better means could he adopt than to turn cabdriver . All these considerations led me to the irresistible conclusion that Jefferson Hope was to be found among the jarveys of the Metropolis . `` If he had been one there was no reason to believe that he had ceased to be . On the contrary , from his point of view , any sudden change would be likely to draw attention to himself . He would , probably , for a time at least , continue to perform his duties . There was no reason to suppose that he was going under an assumed name . Why should he change his name in a country where no one knew his original one ? I therefore organized my Street Arab detective corps , and sent them systematically to every cab proprietor in London until they ferreted out the man that I wanted . How well they succeeded , and how quickly I took advantage of it , are still fresh in your recollection . The murder of Stangerson was an incident which was entirely unexpected , but which could hardly in any case have been prevented . Through it , as you know , I came into possession of the pills , the existence of which I had already surmised . You see the whole thing is a chain of logical sequences without a break or flaw . `` `` It is wonderful ! '' I cried . `` Your merits should be publicly recognized . You should publish an account of the case . If you wo n't , I will for you . `` `` You may do what you like , Doctor , '' he answered . `` See here ! '' he continued , handing a paper over to me , `` look at this ! `` It was theEchofor the day , and the paragraph to which he pointed was devoted to the case in question . `` The public , '' it said , `` have lost a sensational treat through the sudden death of the man Hope , who was suspected of the murder of Mr. Enoch Drebber and of Mr. Joseph Stangerson . The details of the case will probably be never known now , though we are informed upon good authority that the crime was the result of an old standing and romantic feud , in which love and Mormonism bore a part . It seems that both the victims belonged , in their younger days , to the Latter Day Saints , and Hope , the deceased prisoner , hails also from Salt Lake City . If the case has had no other effect , it , at least , brings out in the most striking manner the efficiency of our detective police force , and will serve as a lesson to all foreigners that they will do wisely to settle their feuds at home , and not to carry them on to British soil . It is an open secret that the credit of this smart capture belongs entirely to the well-known Scotland Yard officials , Messrs. Lestrade and Gregson . The man was apprehended , it appears , in the rooms of a certain Mr. Sherlock Holmes , who has himself , as an amateur , shown some talent in the detective line , and who , with such instructors , may hope in time to attain to some degree of their skill . It is expected that a testimonial of some sort will be presented to the two officers as a fitting recognition of their services . `` `` Did n't I tell you so when we started ? '' cried Sherlock Holmes with a laugh . `` That 's the result of all our Study in Scarlet : to get them a testimonial ! `` `` Never mind , '' I answered , `` I have all the facts in my journal , and the public shall know them . In the meantime you must make yourself contented by the consciousness of success , like the Roman miser -- - '' 'Populus me sibilat , at mihi plaudo Ipse domi simul ac nummos contemplor in arca . ' '' 