, and had started to run , when Aylward 's great war-bow twanged like a harp-string , and the man fell forward upon his face , with twitching limbs and clutching fingers . Within five paces of where he lay a narrow and little-used door led out into the bailey . From beyond it came such a Babel of hooting and screaming , horrible oaths and yet more horrible laughter , that the stoutest heart might have shrunk from casting down the frail barrier which faced them . `` Make straight for the keep ! '' said Du Guesclin , in a sharp , stern whisper . `` The two archers in front , the lady in the centre , a squire on either side , while we three knights shall bide behind and beat back those who press upon us . So ! Now open the door , and God have us in his holy keeping ! `` For a few moments it seemed that their object would be attained without danger , so swift and so silent had been their movements . They were half-way across the bailey ere the frantic , howling peasants made a movement to stop them . The few who threw themselves in their way were overpowered or brushed aside , while the pursuers were beaten back by the ready weapons of the three cavaliers . Unscathed they fought their way to the door of the keep , and faced round upon the swarming mob , while the squire thrust the great key into the lock . `` My God ! '' he cried , `` it is the wrong key . `` `` The wrong key ! `` `` Dolt , fool that I am ! This is the key of the castle gate ; the other opens the keep . I must back for it ! '' He turned , with some wild intention of retracing his steps , but at the instant a great jagged rock , hurled by a brawny peasant , struck him full upon the ear , and he dropped senseless to the ground . `` This is key enough for me ! '' quoth Hordle John , picking up the huge stone , and hurling it against the door with all the strength of his enormous body . The lock shivered , the wood smashed , the stone flew into five pieces , but the iron clamps still held the door in its position . Bending down , he thrust his great fingers under it , and with a heave raised the whole mass of wood and iron from its hinges . For a moment it tottered and swayed , and then , falling outward , buried him in its ruin , while his comrades rushed into the dark archway which led to safety . `` Up the steps , Tiphaine ! '' cried Du Guesclin . `` Now round , friends , and beat them back ! '' The mob of peasants had surged in upon their heels , but the two trustiest blades in Europe gleamed upon that narrow stair , and four of their number dropped upon the threshold . The others gave back , and gathered in a half circle round the open door , gnashing their teeth and shaking their clenched hands at the defenders . The body of the French squire had been dragged out by them and hacked to pieces . Three or four others had pulled John from under the door , when he suddenly bounded to his feet , and clutching one in either hand dashed them together with such force that they fell senseless across each other upon the ground . With a kick and a blow he freed himself from two others who clung to him , and in a moment he was within the portal with his comrades.Yet their position was a desperate one . The peasants from far and near had been assembled for this deed of vengeance , and not less than six thousand were within or around the walls of the Chateau of Villefranche . Ill armed and half starved , they were still desperate men , to whom danger had lost all fears : for what was death that they should shun it to cling to such a life as theirs ? The castle was theirs , and the roaring flames were spurting through the windows and flickering high above the turrets on two sides of the quadrangle . From either side they were sweeping down from room to room and from bastion to bastion in the direction of the keep . Faced by an army , and girt in by fire , were six men and one woman ; but some of them were men so trained to danger and so wise in war that even now the combat was less unequal than it seemed . Courage and resource were penned in by desperation and numbers , while the great yellow sheets of flame threw their lurid glare over the scene of death . `` There is but space for two upon a step to give free play to our sword-arms , '' said Du Guesclin . `` Do you stand with me , Nigel , upon the lowest . France and England will fight together this night . Sir Otto , I pray you to stand behind us with this young squire . The archers may go higher yet and shoot over our heads . I would that we had our harness , Nigel . `` `` Often have I heard my dear Sir John Chandos say that a knight should never , even when a guest , be parted from it . Yet it will be more honor to us if we come well out of it . We have a vantage , since we see them against the light and they can scarce see us . It seems to me that they muster for an onslaught . `` `` If we can but keep them in play , '' said the Bohemian , `` it is likely that these flames may bring us succor if there be any true men in the country . `` `` Bethink you , my fair lord , '' said Alleyne to Sir Nigel , `` that we have never injured these men , nor have we cause of quarrel against them . Would it not be well , if but for the lady 's sake , to speak them fair and see if we may not come to honorable terms with them ? `` `` Not so , by St . Paul ! '' cried Sir Nigel . `` It does not accord with mine honor , nor shall it ever be said that I , a knight of England , was ready to hold parley with men who have slain a fair lady and a holy priest . `` `` As well hold parley with a pack of ravening wolves , '' said the French captain . `` Ha ! Notre Dame Du Guesclin ! Saint Ives ! Saint Ives ! `` As he thundered forth his war-cry , the Jacks who had been gathering before the black arch of the gateway rushed in madly in a desperate effort to carry the staircase . Their leaders were a small man , dark in the face , with his beard done up in two plaits , and another larger man , very bowed in the shoulders , with a huge club studded with sharp nails in his hand . The first had not taken three steps ere an arrow from Aylward 's bow struck him full in the chest , and he fell coughing and spluttering across the threshold . The other rushed onwards , and breaking between Du Guesclin and Sir Nigel he dashed out the brains of the Bohemian with a single blow of his clumsy weapon . With three swords through him he still struggled on , and had almost won his way through them ere he fell dead upon the stair . Close at his heels came a hundred furious peasants , who flung themselves again and again against the five swords which confronted them . It was cut and parry and stab as quick as eye could see or hand act . The door was piled with bodies , and the stone floor was slippery with blood . The deep shout of Du Guesclin , the hard , hissing breath of the pressing multitude , the clatter of steel , the thud of falling bodies , and the screams of the stricken , made up such a medley as came often in after years to break upon Alleyne 's sleep . Slowly and sullenly at last the throng drew off , with many a fierce backward glance , while eleven of their number lay huddled in front of the stair which they had failed to win . `` The dogs have had enough , '' said Du Guesclin . `` By Saint Paul ! there appear to be some very worthy and valiant persons among them , '' observed Sir Nigel . `` They are men from whom , had they been of better birth , much honor and advancement might be gained . Even as it is , it is a great pleasure to have seen them . But what is this that they are bringing forward ? `` `` It is as I feared , '' growled Du Guesclin . `` They will burn us out , since they can not win their way past us . Shoot straight and hard , archers ; for , by St. Ives ! our good swords are of little use to us . `` As he spoke , a dozen men rushed forward , each screening himself behind a huge fardel of brushwood . Hurling their burdens in one vast heap within the portal , they threw burning torches upon the top of it . The wood had been soaked in oil , for in an instant it was ablaze , and a long , hissing , yellow flame licked over the heads of the defenders , and drove them further up to the first floor of the keep . They had scarce reached it , however , ere they found that the wooden joists and planks of the flooring were already on fire . Dry and worm-eaten , a spark upon them became a smoulder , and a smoulder a blaze . A choking smoke filled the air , and the five could scarce grope their way to the staircase which led up to the very summit of the square tower.Strange was the scene which met their eyes from this eminence . Beneath them on every side stretched the long sweep of peaceful country , rolling plain , and tangled wood , all softened and mellowed in the silver moonshine . No light , nor movement , nor any sign of human aid could be seen , but far away the hoarse clangor of a heavy bell rose and fell upon the wintry air . Beneath and around them blazed the huge fire , roaring and crackling on every side of the bailey , and even as they looked the two corner turrets fell in with a deafening crash , and the whole castle was but a shapeless mass , spouting flames and smoke from every window and embrasure . The great black tower upon which they stood rose like a last island of refuge amid this sea of fire but the ominous crackling and roaring below showed that it would not be long ere it was engulfed also in the common ruin . At their very feet was the square courtyard , crowded with the howling and dancing peasants , their fierce faces upturned ,