's compliment.When he had returned home he made his own preparations for the grim evening in front of him . First he cleaned , oiled , and loaded his Smith & Wesson revolver . Then he surveyed the room in which the detective was to be trapped . It was a large apartment , with a long deal table in the centre , and the big stove at one side . At each of the other sides were windows . There were no shutters on these : only light curtains which drew across . McMurdo examined these attentively . No doubt it must have struck him that the apartment was very exposed for so secret a meeting . Yet its distance from the road made it of less consequence . Finally he discussed the matter with his fellow lodger . Scanlan , though a Scowrer , was an inoffensive little man who was too weak to stand against the opinion of his comrades , but was secretly horrified by the deeds of blood at which he had sometimes been forced to assist . McMurdo told him shortly what was intended . `` And if I were you , Mike Scanlan , I would take a night off and keep clear of it . There will be bloody work here before morning . `` `` Well , indeed then , Mac , '' Scanlan answered . `` It 's not the will but the nerve that is wanting in me . When I saw Manager Dunn go down at the colliery yonder it was just more than I could stand . I 'm not made for it , same as you or McGinty . If the lodge will think none the worse of me , I 'll just do as you advise and leave you to yourselves for the evening . `` The men came in good time as arranged . They were outwardly respectable citizens , well clad and cleanly ; but a judge of faces would have read little hope for Birdy Edwards in those hard mouths and remorseless eyes . There was not a man in the room whose hands had not been reddened a dozen times before . They were as hardened to human murder as a butcher to sheep.Foremost , of course , both in appearance and in guilt , was the formidable Boss . Harraway , the secretary , was a lean , bitter man with a long , scraggy neck and nervous , jerky limbs , a man of incorruptible fidelity where the finances of the order were concerned , and with no notion of justice or honesty to anyone beyond . The treasurer , Carter , was a middle-aged man , with an impassive , rather sulky expression , and a yellow parchment skin . He was a capable organizer , and the actual details of nearly every outrage had sprung from his plotting brain . The two Willabys were men of action , tall , lithe young fellows with determined faces , while their companion , Tiger Cormac , a heavy , dark youth , was feared even by his own comrades for the ferocity of his disposition . These were the men who assembled that night under the roof of McMurdo for the killing of the Pinkerton detective.Their host had placed whisky upon the table , and they had hastened to prime themselves for the work before them . Baldwin and Cormac were already half-drunk , and the liquor had brought out all their ferocity . Cormac placed his hands on the stove for an instant -- -it had been lighted , for the nights were still cold . `` That will do , '' said he , with an oath . `` Ay , '' said Baldwin , catching his meaning . `` If he is strapped to that , we will have the truth out of him . `` `` We 'll have the truth out of him , never fear , '' said McMurdo . He had nerves of steel , this man ; for though the whole weight of the affair was on him his manner was as cool and unconcerned as ever . The others marked it and applauded . `` You are the one to handle him , '' said the Boss approvingly . `` Not a warning will he get till your hand is on his throat . It 's a pity there are no shutters to your windows . `` McMurdo went from one to the other and drew the curtains tighter . `` Sure no one can spy upon us now . It 's close upon the hour . `` `` Maybe he wo n't come . Maybe he 'll get a sniff of danger , '' said the secretary . `` He 'll come , never fear , '' McMurdo answered . `` He is as eager to come as you can be to see him . Hark to that ! `` They all sat like wax figures , some with their glasses arrested halfway to their lips . Three loud knocks had sounded at the door. '' Hush ! '' McMurdo raised his hand in caution . An exulting glance went round the circle , and hands were laid upon their weapons . `` Not a sound , for your lives ! '' McMurdo whispered , as he went from the room , closing the door carefully behind him.With strained ears the murderers waited . They counted the steps of their comrade down the passage . Then they heard him open the outer door . There were a few words as of greeting . Then they were aware of a strange step inside and of an unfamiliar voice . An instant later came the slam of the door and the turning of the key in the lock . Their prey was safe within the trap . Tiger Cormac laughed horribly , and Boss McGinty clapped his great hand across his mouth . `` Be quiet , you fool ! '' he whispered . `` You 'll be the undoing of us yet ! `` There was a mutter of conversation from the next room . It seemed interminable . Then the door opened , and McMurdo appeared , his finger upon his lip.He came to the end of the table and looked round at them . A subtle change had come over him . His manner was as of one who has great work to do . His face had set into granite firmness . His eyes shone with a fierce excitement behind his spectacles . He had become a visible leader of men . They stared at him with eager interest ; but he said nothing . Still with the same singular gaze he looked from man to man. '' Well ! '' cried Boss McGinty at last . `` Is he here ? Is Birdy Edwards here ? `` `` Yes , '' McMurdo answered slowly . `` Birdy Edwards is here . I am Birdy Edwards ! `` There were ten seconds after that brief speech during which the room might have been empty , so profound was the silence . The hissing of a kettle upon the stove rose sharp and strident to the ear . Seven white faces , all turned upward to this man who dominated them , were set motionless with utter terror . Then , with a sudden shivering of glass , a bristle of glistening rifle barrels broke through each window , while the curtains were torn from their hangings.At the sight Boss McGinty gave the roar of a wounded bear and plunged for the half-opened door . A levelled revolver met him there with the stern blue eyes of Captain Marvin of the Mine Police gleaming behind the sights . The Boss recoiled and fell back into his chair . `` You 're safer there , Councillor , '' said the man whom they had known as McMurdo . `` And you , Baldwin , if you do n't take your hand off your pistol , you 'll cheat the hangman yet . Pull it out , or by the Lord that made me -- -There , that will do . There are forty armed men round this house , and you can figure it out for yourself what chance you have . Take their pistols , Marvin ! `` There was no possible resistance under the menace of those rifles . The men were disarmed . Sulky , sheepish , and amazed , they still sat round the table . `` I 'd like to say a word to you before we separate , '' said the man who had trapped them . `` I guess we may not meet again until you see me on the stand in the courthouse . I 'll give you something to think over between now and then . You know me now for what I am . At last I can put my cards on the table . I am Birdy Edwards of Pinkerton 's . I was chosen to break up your gang . I had a hard and dangerous game to play . Not a soul , not one soul , not my nearest and dearest , knew that I was playing it . Only Captain Marvin here and my employers knew that . But it 's over to-night , thank God , and I am the winner ! `` The seven pale , rigid faces looked up at him . There was unappeasable hatred in their eyes . He read the relentless threat . `` Maybe you think that the game is not over yet . Well , I take my chance of that . Anyhow , some of you will take no further hand , and there are sixty more besides yourselves that will see a jail this night . I 'll tell you this , that when I was put upon this job I never believed there was such a society as yours . I thought it was paper talk , and that I would prove it so . They told me it was to do with the Freemen ; so I went to Chicago and was made one . Then I was surer than ever that it was just paper talk ; for I found no harm in the society , but a deal of good . `` Still , I had to carry out my job , and I came to the coal valleys . When I reached this place I learned that I was wrong and that it was n't a dime novel after all . So I stayed to look after it . I never killed a man in Chicago . I never minted a dollar in my life . Those I gave you were as good as any others ; but I never spent money better . But I knew the way into your good wishes and so I pretended to you that the law was after me . It all worked just as I thought . `` So I joined your infernal lodge , and I took my share in your councils . Maybe they will say that I was as bad as you . They can say what they like , so long as I get you . But what is the truth ? The night I joined you beat up old man Stanger . I could not warn him , for there was no time ; but I held your hand , Baldwin , when you would have killed him . If ever I have suggested things , so as to keep my place among you , they were things which I knew I could prevent . I could not save Dunn and Menzies , for I did not