have a few recent pictures of merit upon the walls . Here is a Corot , two Meissoniers , a Bouguereau , a Millais , an Orchardson , and two Alma-Tademas . It seems to me to be a pity to hang pictures over these walls of carved oak . Look at those birds hopping and singing in the branches . They really seem to move and twitter , do n't they ? `` `` They are perfect . I never saw such exquisite work . But why do you call it a billiard-room , Mr. Haw ? I do not see any board . `` `` Oh , a board is such a clumsy uncompromising piece of furniture . It is always in the way unless you actually need to use it . In this case the board is covered by that square of polished maple which you see let into the floor . Now I put my foot upon this motor . You see ! '' As he spoke , the central portion of the flooring flew up , and a most beautiful tortoise-shell-plated billiard-table rose up to its proper position . He pressed a second spring , and a bagatelle-table appeared in the same fashion . `` You may have card-tables or what you will by setting the levers in motion , '' he remarked . `` But all this is very trifling . Perhaps we may find something in the museum which may be of more interest to you . `` He led the way into another chamber , which was furnished in antique style , with hangings of the rarest and richest tapestry . The floor was a mosaic of coloured marbles , scattered over with mats of costly fur . There was little furniture , but a number of Louis Quatorze cabinets of ebony and silver with delicately-painted plaques were ranged round the apartment . `` It is perhaps hardly fair to dignify it by the name of a museum , '' said Raffles Haw . `` It consists merely of a few elegant trifles which I have picked up here and there . Gems are my strongest point . I fancy that there , perhaps , I might challenge comparison with any private collector in the world . I lock them up , for even the best servants may be tempted . `` He took a silver key from his watch chain , and began to unlock and draw out the drawers . A cry of wonder and of admiration burst from Robert McIntyre , as his eyes rested upon case after case filled with the most magnificent stones . The deep still red of the rubies , the clear scintillating green of the emeralds , the hard glitter of the diamonds , the many shifting shades of beryls , of amethysts , of onyxes , of cats'-eyes , of opals , of agates , of cornelians seemed to fill the whole chamber with a vague twinkling , many-coloured light . Long slabs of the beautiful blue lapis lazuli , magnificent bloodstones , specimens of pink and red and white coral , long strings of lustrous pearls , all these were tossed out by their owner as a careless schoolboy might pour marbles from his bag . `` This is n't bad , '' he said , holding up a great glowing yellow mass as large as his own head . `` It is really a very fine piece of amber . It was forwarded to me by my agent at the Baltic . Twenty-eight pounds , it weighs . I never heard of so fine a one . I have no very large brilliants -- -there were no very large ones in the market -- -but my average is good . Pretty toys , are they not ? '' He picked up a double handful of emeralds from a drawer , and then let them trickle slowly back into the heap . `` Good heavens ! '' cried Robert , as he gazed from case to case . `` It is an immense fortune in itself . Surely a hundred thousand pounds would hardly buy so splendid a collection . `` `` I do n't think that you would do for a valuer of precious stones , '' said Raffles Haw , laughing . `` Why , the contents of that one little drawer of brilliants could not be bought for the sum which you name . I have a memo . here of what I have expended up to date on my collection , though I have agents at work who will probably make very considerable additions to it within the next few weeks . As matters stand , however , I have spent -- -let me see-pearls one forty thousand ; emeralds , seven fifty ; rubies , eight forty ; brilliants , nine twenty ; onyxes -- -I have several very nice onyxes-two thirty . Other gems , carbuncles , agates -- -hum ! Yes , it figures out at just over four million seven hundred and forty thousand . I dare say that we may say five millions , for I have not counted the odd money . `` `` Good gracious ! '' cried the young artist , with staring eyes . `` I have a certain feeling of duty in the matter . You see the cutting , polishing , and general sale of stones is one of those industries which is entirely dependent upon wealth . If we do not support it , it must languish , which means misfortune to a considerable number of people . The same applies to the gold filigree work which you noticed in the court . Wealth has its responsibilities , and the encouragement of these handicrafts are among the most obvious of them . Here is a nice ruby . It is Burmese , and the fifth largest in existence . I am inclined to think that if it were uncut it would be the second , but of course cutting takes away a great deal . '' He held up the blazing red stone , about the size of a chestnut , between his finger and thumb for a moment , and then threw it carelessly back into its drawer . `` Come into the smoking-room , '' he said ; `` you will need some little refreshment , for they say that sight-seeing is the most exhausting occupation in the world . `` The chamber in which the bewildered Robert now found himself was more luxurious , if less rich , than any which he had yet seen . Low settees of claret-coloured plush were scattered in orderly disorder over a mossy Eastern carpet . Deep lounges , reclining sofas , American rocking-chairs , all were to be had for the choosing . One end of the room was walled by glass , and appeared to open upon a luxuriant hot-house . At the further end a double line of gilt rails supported a profusion of the most recent magazines and periodicals . A rack at each side of the inlaid fireplace sustained a long line of the pipes of all places and nations -- -English cherrywoods , French briars , German china-bowls , carved meerschaums , scented cedar and myall-wood , with Eastern narghiles , Turkish chibooques , and two great golden-topped hookahs . To right and left were a series of small lockers , extending in a treble row for the whole length of the room , with the names of the various brands of tobacco scrolled in ivory work across them . Above were other larger tiers of polished oak , which held cigars and cigarettes . `` Try that Damascus settee , '' said the master of the house , as he threw himself into a rocking-chair . `` It is from the Sultan 's upholsterer . The Turks have a very good notion of comfort . I am a confirmed smoker myself , Mr. McIntyre , so I have been able , perhaps , to check my architect here more than in most of the other departments . Of pictures , for example , I know nothing , as you would very speedily find out . On a tobacco , I might , perhaps , offer an opinion . Now these '' -- -he drew out some long , beautifully-rolled , mellow-coloured cigars -- - '' these are really something a little out of the common . Do try one . `` Robert lit the weed which was offered to him , and leaned back luxuriously amid his cushions , gazing through the blue balmy fragrant cloud-wreaths at the extraordinary man in the dirty pea-jacket who spoke of millions as another might of sovereigns . With his pale face , his sad , languid air , and his bowed shoulders , it was as though he were crushed down under the weight of his own gold . There was a mute apology , an attitude of deprecation in his manner and speech , which was strangely at variance with the immense power which he wielded . To Robert the whole whimsical incident had been intensely interesting and amusing . His artistic nature blossomed out in this atmosphere of perfect luxury and comfort , and he was conscious of a sense of repose and of absolute sensual contentment such as he had never before experienced . `` Shall it be coffee , or Rhine wine , or Tokay , or perhaps something stronger , '' asked Raffles Haw , stretching out his hand to what looked like a piano-board projecting from the wall . `` I can recommend the Tokay . I have it from the man who supplies the Emperor of Austria , though I think I may say that I get the cream of it . `` He struck twice upon one of the piano-notes , and sat expectant . With a sharp click at the end of ten seconds a sliding shutter flew open , and a small tray protruded bearing two long tapering Venetian glasses filled with wine . `` It works very nicely , '' said Raffles Haw . `` It is quite a new thing -- -never before done , as far as I know . You see the names of the various wines and so on printed on the notes . By pressing the note down I complete an electric circuit which causes the tap in the cellars beneath to remain open long enough to fill the glass which always stands beneath it . The glasses , you understand , stand upon a revolving drum , so that there must always be one there . The glasses are then brought up through a pneumatic tube , which is set working by the increased weight of the glass when the wine is added to it . It is a pretty little idea . But I am afraid that I bore you rather with all these petty contrivances . It is a whim of mine to push mechanism as far as it will go . `` `` On the contrary , I am filled with interest and wonder , '' said Robert warmly . `` It is as if I had been suddenly whipped up out of prosaic old England and transferred in an instant to some enchanted palace , some Eastern home of the Genii . I could not have believed that there existed upon this earth such adaptation of means to an end , such complete mastery of every detail which may aid in stripping life of any of its petty worries . `` `` I have something yet to show you , '' remarked Raffles Haw ; `` but we will rest here for a few minutes , for I wished to have a