and the Indians , and had fitted her with meat and biscuit to last them for ten days at the least . `` It 's like the breath of life to me to feel the heft of a gun and to smell the trees round me , '' said Amos . `` Why , it can not be more than a hundred leagues from here to Albany or Schenectady , right through the forest . `` `` Ay , lad , but how is the gal to walk a hundred leagues through a forest ? No , no , let us keep water under our keel , and lean on the Lord . `` `` Then there is only one way for it . We must make the Richelieu River , and keep right along to Lake Champlain and Lake St. Sacrament . There we should be close by the headwaters of the Hudson . `` `` It is a dangerous road , '' said De Catinat , who understood the conversation of his companions , even when he was unable to join in it . `` We should need to skirt the country of the Mohawks . `` `` It 's the only way , I guess . It 's that or nothing . `` `` And I have a friend upon the Richelieu River who , I am sure , would help us on our way , '' said De Catinat with a smile . `` Adele , you have heard me talk of Charles de la Noue , seigneur de Sainte Marie ? `` `` He whom you used to call the Canadian duke , Amory ? '' '' Precisely . His seigneury lies on the Richelieu , a little south of FortSt . Louis , and I am sure that he would speed us upon our way. '' '' Good ! '' cried Amos . `` If we have a friend there we shall do well . That clenches it then , and we shall hold fast by the river . Let 's get to our paddles then , for that friar will make mischief for us if he can . `` And so for a long week the little party toiled up the great waterway , keeping ever to the southern bank , where there were fewer clearings . On both sides of the stream the woods were thick , but every here and there they would curve away , and a narrow strip of cultivated land would skirt the bank , with the yellow stubble to mark where the wheat had grown . Adele looked with interest at the wooden houses with their jutting stories and quaint gable-ends , at the solid , stone-built manor-houses of the seigneurs , and at the mills in every hamlet , which served the double purpose of grinding flour and of a loop-holed place of retreat in case of attack . Horrible experience had taught the Canadians what the English settlers had yet to learn , that in a land of savages it is a folly to place isolated farmhouses in the centre of their own fields . The clearings then radiated out from the villages , and every cottage was built with an eye to the military necessities of the whole , so that the defence might make a stand at all points , and might finally centre upon the stone manor-house and the mill . Now at every bluff and hill near the villages might be seen the gleam of the muskets of the watchers , for it was known that the scalping parties of the Five Nations were out , and none could tell where the blow would fall , save that it must come where they were least prepared to meet it.Indeed , at every step in this country , whether the traveller were on the St. Lawrence , or west upon the lakes , or down upon the banks of the Mississippi , or south in the country of the Cherokees and of the Creeks , he would still find the inhabitants in the same state of dreadful expectancy , and from the same cause . The Iroquois , as they were named by the French , or the Five Nations as they called themselves , hung like a cloud over the whole great continent . Their confederation was a natural one , for they were of the same stock and spoke the same language , and all attempts to separate them had been in vain . Mohawks , Cayugas , Onondagas , Oneidas , and Senecas were each proud of their own totems and their own chiefs , but in war they were Iroquois , and the enemy of one was the enemy of all . Their numbers were small , for they were never able to put two thousand warriors in the field , and their country was limited , for their villages were scattered over the tract which lies between Lake Champlain and Lake Ontario . But they were united , they were cunning , they were desperately brave , and they were fiercely aggressive and energetic . Holding a central position , they struck out upon each side in turn , never content with simply defeating an adversary , but absolutely annihilating and destroying him , while holding all the others in check by their diplomacy . War was their business , and cruelty their amusement . One by one they had turned their arms against the various nations , until , for a space of over a thousand square miles , none existed save by sufferance . They had swept away Hurons and Huron missions in one fearful massacre . They had destroyed the tribes of the north-west , until even the distant Sacs and Foxes trembled at their name . They had scoured the whole country to westward until their scalping parties had come into touch with their kinsmen the Sioux , who were lords of the great plains , even as they were of the great forests . The New England Indians in the east , and the Shawnees and Delawares farther south , paid tribute to them , and the terror of their arms had extended over the borders of Maryland and Virginia . Never , perhaps , in the world 's history has so small a body of men dominated so large a district and for so long a time.For half a century these tribes had nursed a grudge wards the French since Champlain and some of his followers had taken part with their enemies against them . During all these years they had brooded in their forest villages , flashing out now and again in some border outrage , but waiting for the most part until their chance should come . And now it seemed to them that it had come . They had destroyed all the tribes who might have allied themselves with the white men . They had isolated them . They had supplied themselves with good guns and plenty of ammunition from the Dutch and English of New York . The long thin line of French settlements lay naked before them . They were gathered in the woods , like hounds in leash , waiting for the orders of their chiefs , which should precipitate them with torch and with tomahawk upon the belt of villages.Such was the situation as the little party of refugees paddled along the bank of the river , seeking the only path which could lead them to peace and to freedom . Yet it was , as they well knew , a dangerous road to follow . All down the Richelieu River were the outposts and blockhouses of the French , for when the feudal system was grafted upon Canada the various seigneurs or nativenoblessewere assigned their estates in the positions which would be of most benefit to the settlement . Each seigneur with his tenants under him , trained as they were in the use of arms , formed a military force exactly as they had done in the middle ages , the farmer holding his fief upon condition that he mustered when called upon to do so . Hence the old officers of the regiment of Carignan , and the more hardy of the settlers , had been placed along the line of the Richelieu , which runs at right angles to the St. Lawrence towards the Mohawk country . The blockhouses themselves might hold their own , but to the little party who had to travel down from one to the other the situation was full of deadly peril . It was true that the Iroquois were not at war with the English , but they would discriminate little when on the warpath , and the Americans , even had they wished to do so , could not separate their fate from that of their two French companions.As they ascended the St. Lawrence they met many canoes coming down . Sometimes it was an officer or an official on his way to the capital from Three Rivers or Montreal , sometimes it was a load of skins , with Indians orcoureurs-de-boisconveying them down to be shipped to Europe , and sometimes it was a small canoe which bore a sunburned grizzly-haired man , with rusty weather-stained black cassock , who zigzagged from bank to bank , stopping at every Indian hut upon his way . If aught were amiss with the Church in Canada the fault lay not with men like these village priests , who toiled and worked and spent their very lives in bearing comfort and hope , and a little touch of refinement too , through all those wilds . More than once these wayfarers wished to have speech with the fugitives , but they pushed onwards , disregarding their signs and hails . From below nothing overtook them , for they paddled from early morning until late at night , drawing up the canoe when they halted , and building a fire of dry wood , for already the nip of the coming winter was in the air.It was not only the people and their dwellings which were stretched out before the wondering eyes of the French girl as she sat day after day in the stern of the canoe . Her husband and Amos Green taught her also to take notice of the sights of the woodlands , and as they skirted the bank , they pointed out a thousand things which her own senses would never have discerned . Sometimes it was the furry face of a raccoon peeping out from some tree-cleft , or an otter swimming under the overhanging brushwood with the gleam of a white fish in its mouth . Or , perhaps , it was the wild cat crouching along a branch with its wicked yellow eyes fixed upon the squirrels which played at the farther end , or else with a scuttle and rush the Canadian porcupine would thrust its way among the yellow blossoms of the resin weed and the tangle of the whortleberry bushes . She learned , too , to recognise the pert sharp cry of the tiny chick-a-dee , the call of the blue-bird , and the flash of its wings amid the foliage , the sweet chirpy note of the black and white bobolink , and the long-drawn mewing of the cat-bird . On the breast of the broad blue river , with Nature 's sweet concert ever sounding from the bank , and with every colour that artist could devise spread out before her eyes on the foliage of the dying woods , the smile came back to her lips , and her cheeks took a glow of health which France had never been able to give . De Catinat saw the change in her