- '' Away she tripped , while the major remained standing where she had left him , feeling a better man than he had done since he was a young ensign and kissed his mother for the last time at the Portsmouth jetty before the great transport carried him off to India.Everything in the world must have an end , and Mrs. Scully 's dance was no exception to the rule . The day was breaking , however , before the last guests had muffled themselves up and the last hansom dashed away from the door . The major lingered behind to bid farewell , and then rejoined his German friend , who had been compelled to wait at the door for the latchkey . `` Look here , major , '' the latter said , when they came into their room , `` is it well to tell a Brussian gentleman to go to the devil ? You have much offended me . Truly I was surprised that you should have so spoken ! `` `` Me dear friend , '' the old soldier answered , shaking his hand , `` I would not hurt your feelings for the world . Bedad , if I come into the room while you are proposing to a lady , you are welcome to use the strongest German verb to me that you can lay your tongue to . `` `` You have probosed , then ? '' cried the good-natured German , forgetting all about his grievance in an instant. '' Yes . `` `` And been took -- -received by her ? '' '' Yes . `` `` Dat Is gloriful ! '' Von Baumser cried , clapping his hands . `` Three hochs for Frau Scully , and another one for Frau Clutterbuck . We must drink a drink on it ; we truly must . `` `` So we shall , me boy , but it 's time we turned in now . She 's a good woman , and she plays a good hand at whist . Ged ! she cleared the trumps and made her long suit to-night as well as ever I saw it done in me life ! '' With which characteristic piece of eulogy the major bade his comrade good night and retired to his room.Tom Dimsdale 's duties were far from light . Not only was he expected to supervise the clerks ' accounts and to treat with the wholesale dealers , but he was also supposed to spend a great part of his time in the docks , overlooking the loading of the outgoing ships and checking the cargo of the incoming ones . This latter portion of his work was welcome as taking him some hours a day from the close counting-house , and allowing him to get a sniff of the sea air -- -if , indeed , a sniff is to be had on the inland side of Woolwich . There was a pleasing life and bustle , too , in the broad , brown river , with its never-ending panorama of vessels of every size and shape which ebb and flow in the great artery of national life.So interesting was this liquid highway to Tom 's practical mind , that he would often stand at the head of the wharf when his work was done and smoke a meditative pipe . It was a quiet spot , which had once been busy enough , but was now superseded by new quays and more convenient landing-places . All over it were scattered great rusty anchors , colossal iron chains , deserted melancholy boilers , and other debris which are found in such places , and which might seem to the fanciful to be the shells and skeletons of strange monsters washed up there by the tide . To whom do these things belong ? Who has an interest in them ? Of what use are they ? It appeared to Tom sometimes as if the original owners and their heirs must have all died away , and left these grim relics behind them to any one who might have the charity to remove them.From this coign of vantage a long reach of the river was visible , and Tom sitting there would watch the fleets of passing vessels , and let his imagination wander away to the broad oceans which they had traversed , and the fair lands under bluer skies and warmer suns from which they had sailed . Here is a tiny steam-tug panting and toiling in front of a majestic three-master with her great black hulk towering out of the water and her masts shooting up until the topmast rigging looks like the delicate web of some Titanic spider . She is from Canton , with tea , and coffee , and spices , and all good things from the land of small feet and almond eyes . Here , too , is a Messagerie boat , the French ensign drooping daintily over her stern , and her steam whistle screeching a warning to some obstinate lighters , crawling with their burden of coal to a grimy collier whose steam-winch is whizzing away like a corncrake of the deep . That floating palace is an Orient boat from Australia . See how , as the darkness falls , a long row of yellow eyes glimmer out from her sides as the light streams through her countless portholes . And there is the Rotterdam packet-boat coming slowly up , very glad to get back into safe waters again , for she has had a wildish time in the North Sea . A coasting brig has evidently had a wilder time still , for her main-topmast is cracked across , and her rigging is full of the little human mites who crawl about , and reef , and splice , and mend.An old acquaintance of ours was out in that same gale , and is even now making his way into the shelter of the Albert docks . This was none other than the redoubtable Captain Hamilton Miggs , whose ship will persistently keep afloat , to the astonishment of the gallant captain himself , and of every one else who knows anything of her sea-going qualities . Again and again she had been on the point of foundering ; and again and again some change in the weather or the steady pumping of the crew had prevented her from fulfilling her destiny . So surprised was the skipper at these repeated interpositions of Providence that he had quite made up his superstitious mind that the ship never would go down , and now devoted himself with a whole heart to his old occupation of drinking himself into delirium tremens and physicking himself out of it again.TheBlack Eaglehad a fair cargo aboard , and Miggs was proportionately jubilant . The drunken old sea-dog had taken a fancy to Tom 's frank face and honest eyes , and greeted him with effusion when he came aboard next morning . `` Knock me asunder , but you look rosy , man ! '' he cried . `` It 's easy to see that you have not been lying off Fernando Po , or getting the land mist into your lungs in the Gaboon . `` `` You look well yourself , captain , '' said Tom . `` Tolerable , tolerable . Just a touch of the jumps at times . `` `` We can begin getting our cargo out , I suppose ? I have a list here to check it . Will you have the hatches off at once ? `` `` No work for me , '' said Captain Hamilton Miggs with decision . `` Here , Sandy -- -Sandy McPherson , start the cargo , will ye , and stir your great Scotch bones . I 've done enough in bringing this sieve of a ship all the way from Africa , without working when I am in dock . `` McPherson was the first mate , a tall , yellow-bearded Aberdonian . `` I 'll see t'it , '' he said shortly . `` You can gang ashore or where you wull . `` `` TheCock and Cowslip , '' said the captain , `` I say , you -- -Master Dimsdale -- -when you 're done come up an ' have a glass o ' wine with me . I 'm only a plain sailor man , but I 'm damned if my heart ai n't in the right place . You too , McPherson -- -you 'll come up and show Mr. Dimsdale the way.Cock and Cowslip , corner o ' Sextant Court . '' The two having accepted his invitation , the captain shuffled off across the gangway and on to terra firma.All day Tom stood at the hatchway of theBlack Eagle , checking the cargo as it was hoisted out of her , while McPherson and his motley assistants , dock labourers , seamen , and black Kroomen from the coast , worked and toiled in the depths below . The engine rattled and snorted , and the great chain clanked as it was lowered into the hold . `` Make fast there ! '' cries the mate . `` Aye , aye , sir ! `` `` All right ? `` `` All right , sir . `` `` Hoist away ! `` And clank , clank went the chain again , and whir-r-r the engine , and up would come a pair of oil casks , as though the crane were some giant forceps which was plucking out the great wooden teeth of the vessel . It seemed to Tom , as he stood looking down , note-book in hand , that some of the actual malarious air of the coast had been carried home in the hold , so foul and close were the smells evolved from it . Great cockchafers crawled about over the packages , and occasionally a rat would scamper over the barrels , such a rat as is only to be found in ships which hail from the tropics . On one occasion too , as a tusk of ivory was being hoisted out , there was a sudden cry of alarm among the workers , and a long , yellow snake crawled out of the cavity of the trunk and writhed away into the darkness . It is no uncommon thing to find the deadly creatures hibernating in the hollow of the tusks until the cold English air arouses them from their torpor , to the cost occasionally of some unhappy stevedore or labourer.All day Tom stood amid grease and steam , bustle and blasphemy , checking off the cargo , and looking to its conveyance to the warehouses . At one o'clock there was a break of an hour for dinner , and then the work went on until six , when all hands struck and went off to their homes or to the public-house according to inclination . Tom and the mate , both fairly tired by their day 's work , prepared to accept the captain 's invitation , and to meet him up in his quarters . The mate dived down into his cabin , and soon reappeared with his face shining and his long hair combed into some sort of order . `` I 've been performing my ablutions , '' he said , rolling out the last word with great emphasis and pomposity , for , like many Scotchmen , he had the greatest possible reverence for a sonorous polysyllable . Indeed , in McPherson , this national foible was pushed to excess , for , however inappropriate the word , he never hesitated to drag it into his conversation if he thought it would aid