very loath to abandon a series of experiments which have already gone so far , and which promise such brilliant results . On the other , if this unhappy woman has conceived a passion for me -- -- -- But surely even now I must have made some hideous mistake . She , with her age and her deformity ! It is impossible . And then she knew about Agatha . She understood how I was placed . She only smiled out of amusement , perhaps , when in my dazed state I seized her hand . It was my half-mesmerized brain which gave it a meaning , and sprang with such bestial swiftness to meet it . I wish I could persuade myself that it was indeed so . On the whole , perhaps , my wisest plan would be to postpone our other experiments until Wilson 's return . I have written a note to Miss Penclosa , therefore , making no allusion to last night , but saying that a press of work would cause me to interrupt our sittings for a few days . She has answered , formally enough , to say that if I should change my mind I should find her at home at the usual hour.10 P. M. Well , well , what a thing of straw I am ! I am coming to know myself better of late , and the more I know the lower I fall in my own estimation . Surely I was not always so weak as this . At four o'clock I should have smiled had any one told me that I should go to Miss Penclosa 's to-night , and yet , at eight , I was at Wilson 's door as usual . I do n't know how it occurred . The influence of habit , I suppose . Perhaps there is a mesmeric craze as there is an opium craze , and I am a victim to it . I only know that as I worked in my study I became more and more uneasy . I fidgeted . I worried . I could not concentrate my mind upon the papers in front of me . And then , at last , almost before I knew what I was doing , I seized my hat and hurried round to keep my usual appointment.We had an interesting evening . Mrs. Wilson was present during most of the time , which prevented the embarrassment which one at least of us must have felt . Miss Penclosa 's manner was quite the same as usual , and she expressed no surprise at my having come in spite of my note . There was nothing in her bearing to show that yesterday 's incident had made any impression upon her , and so I am inclined to hope that I overrated it.April 6 ( evening ) . No , no , no , I did not overrate it . I can no longer attempt to conceal from myself that this woman has conceived a passion for me . It is monstrous , but it is true . Again , tonight , I awoke from the mesmeric trance to find my hand in hers , and to suffer that odious feeling which urges me to throw away my honor , my career , every thing , for the sake of this creature who , as I can plainly see when I am away from her influence , possesses no single charm upon earth . But when I am near her , I do not feel this . She rouses something in me , something evil , something I had rather not think of . She paralyzes my better nature , too , at the moment when she stimulates my worse . Decidedly it is not good for me to be near her.Last night was worse than before . Instead of flying I actually sat for some time with my hand in hers talking over the most intimate subjects with her . We spoke of Agatha , among other things . What could I have been dreaming of ? Miss Penclosa said that she was conventional , and I agreed with her . She spoke once or twice in a disparaging way of her , and I did not protest . What a creature I have been ! Weak as I have proved myself to be , I am still strong enough to bring this sort of thing to an end . It shall not happen again . I have sense enough to fly when I can not fight . From this Sunday night onward I shall never sit with Miss Penclosa again . Never ! Let the experiments go , let the research come to an end ; any thing is better than facing this monstrous temptation which drags me so low . I have said nothing to Miss Penclosa , but I shall simply stay away . She can tell the reason without any words of mine.April 7 . Have stayed away as I said . It is a pity to ruin such an interesting investigation , but it would be a greater pity still to ruin my life , and I KNOW that I can not trust myself with that woman.11 P. M. God help me ! What is the matter with me ? Am I going mad ? Let me try and be calm and reason with myself . First of all I shall set down exactly what occurred.It was nearly eight when I wrote the lines with which this day begins . Feeling strangely restless and uneasy , I left my rooms and walked round to spend the evening with Agatha and her mother . They both remarked that I was pale and haggard . About nine Professor Pratt-Haldane came in , and we played a game of whist . I tried hard to concentrate my attention upon the cards , but the feeling of restlessness grew and grew until I found it impossible to struggle against it . I simply COULD not sit still at the table . At last , in the very middle of a hand , I threw my cards down and , with some sort of an incoherent apology about having an appointment , I rushed from the room . As if in a dream I have a vague recollection of tearing through the hall , snatching my hat from the stand , and slamming the door behind me . As in a dream , too , I have the impression of the double line of gas-lamps , and my bespattered boots tell me that I must have run down the middle of the road . It was all misty and strange and unnatural . I came to Wilson 's house ; I saw Mrs. Wilson and I saw Miss Penclosa . I hardly recall what we talked about , but I do remember that Miss P. shook the head of her crutch at me in a playful way , and accused me of being late and of losing interest in our experiments . There was no mesmerism , but I stayed some time and have only just returned.My brain is quite clear again now , and I can think over what has occurred . It is absurd to suppose that it is merely weakness and force of habit . I tried to explain it in that way the other night , but it will no longer suffice . It is something much deeper and more terrible than that . Why , when I was at the Mardens ' whist-table , I was dragged away as if the noose of a rope had been cast round me . I can no longer disguise it from myself . The woman has her grip upon me . I am in her clutch . But I must keep my head and reason it out and see what is best to be done.But what a blind fool I have been ! In my enthusiasm over my research I have walked straight into the pit , although it lay gaping before me . Did she not herself warn me ? Did she not tell me , as I can read in my own journal , that when she has acquired power over a subject she can make him do her will ? And she has acquired that power over me . I am for the moment at the beck and call of this creature with the crutch . I must come when she wills it . I must do as she wills . Worst of all , I must feel as she wills . I loathe her and fear her , yet , while I am under the spell , she can doubtless make me love her.There is some consolation in the thought , then , that those odious impulses for which I have blamed myself do not really come from me at all . They are all transferred from her , little as I could have guessed it at the time . I feel cleaner and lighter for the thought.April 8 . Yes , now , in broad daylight , writing coolly and with time for reflection , I am compelled to confirm every thing which I wrote in my journal last night . I am in a horrible position , but , above all , I must not lose my head . I must pit my intellect against her powers . After all , I am no silly puppet , to dance at the end of a string . I have energy , brains , courage . For all her devil 's tricks I may beat her yet . May ! I MUST , or what is to become of me ? Let me try to reason it out ! This woman , by her own explanation , can dominate my nervous organism . She can project herself into my body and take command of it . She has a parasite soul ; yes , she is a parasite , a monstrous parasite . She creeps into my frame as the hermit crab does into the whelk 's shell . I am powerless What can I do ? I am dealing with forces of which I know nothing . And I can tell no one of my trouble . They would set me down as a madman . Certainly , if it got noised abroad , the university would say that they had no need of a devil-ridden professor . And Agatha ! No , no , I must face it alone.I read over my notes of what the woman said when she spoke about her powers . There is one point which fills me with dismay . She implies that when the influence is slight the subject knows what he is doing , but can not control himself , whereas when it is strongly exerted he is absolutely unconscious . Now , I have always known what I did , though less so last night than on the previous occasions . That seems to mean that she has never yet exerted her full powers upon me . Was ever a man so placed before ? Yes , perhaps there was , and very near me , too . Charles Sadler must know something of this ! His vague words of warning take a meaning now . Oh , if I had only listened to him then , before I helped by these repeated sittings to forge the links of the chain which binds me ! But I will see him to-day . I will apologize to him for having treated his warning so lightly . I will see if he can advise me.4 P. M. No , he can not .