some one of his adversaries . At last , however , his chance came . The ball trickled out of a maul into the hands of Buller , who at once turned and threw it to the half-back behind him . There was no time to reach him . He took a quick glance at the distant goal , a short run forward , and his long limb swung through the air with tremendous force . There was a dead silence of suspense among the crowd as the ball described a lofty parabola . Down it came , down , down , as straight and true as an arrow , just grazing the cross-bar and pitching on the grass beyond , and the groans of a few afflicted patriots were drowned in the hearty cheers which hailed the English goal.But the victory was not won yet . There were ten minutes left for the Scotchmen to recover this blow or for the Englishmen to improve upon it . The Northerners played so furiously that the ball was kept down near the English goal , which was only saved by the splendid defensive play of their backs . Five minutes passed , and the Scots in turn were being pressed back . A series of brilliant runs by Buller , Jackson , and Evans took the fight into the enemy 's country , and kept it there . It seemed as if the visitors meant scoring again , when a sudden change occurred in the state of affairs . It was but three minutes off the calling of time when Tookey , one of the Scotch quarter-backs , got hold of the ball , and made a magnificent run , passing right through the opposing forwards and quarters . He was collared by Evans , but immediately threw the ball behind him . Dimsdale had followed up the quarter-back and caught the ball when it was thrown backwards . Now or never ! The lad felt that he would sacrifice anything to pass the three men who stood between him and the English goal . He passed Evans like the wind before the half-back could disentangle himself from Tookey . There were but two now to oppose him . The first was the other English half-back , a broad-shouldered , powerful fellow , who rushed at him ; but Tom , without attempting to avoid him , lowered his head and drove at him full tilt with such violence that both men reeled back from the collision . Dimsdale recovered himself first , however , and got past before the other had time to seize him . The goal was now not more than twenty yards off , with only one between Tom and it , though half a dozen more were in close pursuit . The English back caught him round the waist , while another from behind seized the collar of his jersey , and the three came heavily to the ground together . But the deed was done . In the very act of falling he had managed to kick the ball , which flickered feebly up into the air and just cleared the English bar . It had scarcely touched the ground upon the other side when the ringing of the great bell announced the termination of the match , though its sound was entirely drowned by the tumultuous shouting of the crowd . A thousand hats were thrown into the air , ten thousand voices joined in the roar , and meanwhile the cause of all this outcry was still sitting on the ground , smiling , it is true , but very pale , and with one of his arms dangling uselessly from his shoulder.Well , the breaking of a collar-bone is a small price to pay for the saving of such a match as that . So thought Tom Dimsdale as he made for the pavilion , with his father keeping off the exultant crowd upon one side and Jack Garraway upon the other . The doctor butted a path through the dense half-crazy mob with a vigour which showed that his son 's talents in that direction were hereditary . Within half an hour Tom was safely ensconced in the corner of the carriage , with his shoulder braced back , secundum artem , and his arm supported by a sling . How quietly and deftly the two women slipped a shawl here and a rug there to save him from the jarring of the carriage ! It is part of the angel nature of woman that when youth and strength are maimed and helpless they appeal to her more than they can ever do in the pride and flush of their power . Here lies the compensation of the unfortunate . Kate 's dark blue eyes filled with ineffable compassion as she bent over him ; and he , catching sight of that expression , felt a sudden new unaccountable spring of joy bubble up in his heart , which made all previous hopes and pleasures seem vapid and meaningless . The little god shoots hard and straight when his mark is still in the golden dawn of life . All the way back he lay with his head among the cushions , dreaming of ministering angels , his whole soul steeped in quiet contentment as it dwelt upon the sweet earnest eyes which had looked so tenderly into his . It had been an eventful day with the student . He had saved his side , he had broken his collar-bone , and now , most serious of all , he had realized that he was hopelessly in love.Within a few weeks of his recovery from his accident Tom Dimsdale was to go up for his first professional examination , and his father , who had now retired from practice with a fair fortune , remained in Edinburgh until that event should come off . There had been some difficulty in persuading Girdlestone to give his consent to this prolongation of his ward 's leave , but the old merchant was very much engrossed with his own affairs about that time , which made him more amenable than he might otherwise have been . The two travellers continued , therefore , to reside in their Princes Street hotel , but the student held on to his lodgings in Howe Street , where he used to read during the morning and afternoon . Every evening , however , he managed to dine at theRoyal , and would stay there until his father packed him off to his books once more . It was in vain for him to protest and to plead for another half-hour . The physician was inexorable . When the fated hour came round the unhappy youth slowly gathered together his hat , his gloves , and his stick , spreading out that operation over the greatest possible extent of time which it could by any means be made to occupy . He would then ruefully bid his kinsfolk adieu , and retire rebelliously to his books.Very soon , however , he made a discovery . From a certain seat in the Princes Street Gardens it was possible to see the interior of the sitting-room in which the visitors remained after dinner . From the time when this fact dawned upon him , his rooms in the evening knew him no more . The gardens were locked at night , but that was a mere trifle . He used to scramble over the railings like a cat , and then , planting himself upon the particular seat , he would keep a watch upon the hotel window until the occupants of the room retired to rest . It might happen that his cousin remained invisible . Then he would return to his rooms in a highly dissatisfied state , and sit up half the night protesting against fate and smoking strong black tobacco . On the other hand , if he had the good luck to see the graceful figure of his old playfellow , he felt that that was the next best thing to being actually in her company , and departed eventually in a more contented frame of mind . Thus , when Dr. Dimsdale fondly imagined his son to be a mile away grappling with the mysteries of science , that undutiful lad was in reality perched within sixty yards of him , with his thoughts engrossed by very different matters.Kate could not fail to understand what was going on . However young and innocent a girl may be , there is always some subtle feminine instinct which warns her that she is loved . Then first she realizes that she has passed the shadowy frontier line which divides the child-life from that of the woman . Kate felt uneasy and perplexed , and half involuntarily she changed her manner towards him.It had been frank and sisterly ; now it became more distant and constrained . He was quick to observe the change , and in private raved and raged at it . He even made the mistake of showing his pique to her , upon which she became still more retiring and conventional . Then be bemoaned himself in the sleepless watches of the night , and confided to his bed-post that in his belief such a case had never occurred before in the history of the world , and never by any chance could or would happen again . He also broke out into an eruption of bad verses , which were found by his landlady during her daily examination of his private papers , and were read aloud to a select audience of neighbours , who were all much impressed , and cackled sympathetically among themselves.By degrees Tom developed other symptoms of the distemper which had come upon him so suddenly . He had always been remarkable for a certain towsiness of appearance and carelessness of dress which harmonized with his Bohemian habits . All this he suddenly abjured . One fine morning he paid successive visits to his tailor , his boot-maker , his hatter , and his hosier , which left all those worthy tradesmen rubbing their hands with satisfaction . About a week afterwards he emerged from his rooms in a state of gorgeousness which impressed his landlady and amazed his friends . His old college companions hardly recognized Tom 's honest phiz as it looked out above the most fashionable of coats and under the glossiest of hats.His father was anything but edified by the change . `` I do n't know what 's coming over the lad , Kate , '' he remarked after one of his visits . `` If I thought he was going to turn to a fop , by the Lord Harry I 'd disown him ! Do n't you notice a change in him yourself ? `` Kate managed to evade the question , but her bright blush might have opened the old man 's eyes had he observed it . He hardly realized yet that his son really was a man , and still less did he think of John Harston 's little girl as a woman . It is generally some comparative stranger who first makes that discovery and brings it home to friends and relatives.Love has an awkward way of intruding itself at inconvenient times , but it never came more inopportunely than when it smote one who was reading for his first professional examination . During these weeks , when Tom was stumping about in boots which were two sizes too small for him , in the hope of making his muscular , well-formed foot a trifle more elegant , and was splitting gloves in a way which surprised his glover , all his energies ought by rights to