I John Fothergill West , student of law in the University of St. Andrews , have endeavoured in the ensuing pages to lay my statement before the public in a concise and business-like fashion.It is not my wish to achieve literary success , nor have I any desire by the graces of my style , or by the artistic ordering of my incidents , to throw a deeper shadow over the strange passages of which I shall have to speak . My highest ambition is that those who know something of the matter should , after reading my account , be able to conscientiously indorse it without finding a single paragraph in which I have either added to or detracted from the truth.Should I attain this result , I shall rest amply satisfied with the outcome of my first , and probably my last , venture in literature.It was my intention to write out the sequence of events in due order , depending on trustworthy hearsay when I was describing that which was beyond my own personal knowledge . I have now , however , through the kind cooperation of friends , hit upon a plan which promises to be less onerous to me and more satisfactory to the reader . This is nothing less than to make use of the various manuscripts which I have by me bearing upon the subject , and to add to them the first-hand evidence contributed by those who had the best opportunities of knowing Major-General J . B. Heatherstone.In pursuance of this design I shall lay before the public the testimony of Israel Stakes , formerly coachman at Cloomber Hall , and of John Easterling , F.R.C.P . Edin. , now practising at Stranraer , in Wigtownshire . To these I shall add a verbatim account extracted from the journal of the late John Berthier Heatherstone , of the events which occurred in the Thul Valley in the autumn of '41 towards the end of the first Afghan War , with a description of the skirmish in the Terada defile , and of the death of the man Ghoolab Shah.To myself I reserve the duty of filling up all the gaps and chinks which may be left in the narrative . By this arrangement I have sunk from the position of an author to that of a compiler , but on the other hand my work has ceased to be a story and has expanded into a series of affidavits.My Father , John Hunter West , was a well known Oriental and Sanskrit scholar , and his name is still of weight with those who are interested in such matters . He it was who first after Sir William Jones called attention to the great value of early Persian literature , and his translations from the Hafiz and from Ferideddin Atar have earned the warmest commendations from the Baron von Hammer-Purgstall , of Vienna , and other distinguished Continental critics.In the issue of theOrientalisches Scienzblattfor January , 1861 , he is described as '' Der beruhmte und sehr gelhernte Hunter West von Edinburgh '' -- -a passage which I well remember that he cut out and stowed away , with a pardonable vanity , among the most revered family archives.He had been brought up to be a solicitor , or Writer to the Signet , as it is termed in Scotland , but his learned hobby absorbed so much of his time that he had little to devote to the pursuit of his profession.When his clients were seeking him at his chambers in George Street , he was buried in the recesses of the Advocates ' Library , or poring over some mouldy manuscript at the Philosophical Institution , with his brain more exercised over the code which Menu propounded six hundred years before the birth of Christ than over the knotty problems of Scottish law in the nineteenth century . Hence it can hardly be wondered at that as his learning accumulated his practice dissolved , until at the very moment when he had attained the zenith of his celebrity he had also reached the nadir of his fortunes.There being no chair of Sanscrit in any of his native universities , and no demand anywhere for the only mental wares which he had to dispose of , we should have been forced to retire into genteel poverty , consoling ourselves with the aphorisms and precepts of Firdousi , Omar Khayyam , and others of his Eastern favourites , had it not been for the kindness and liberality of his half-brother William Farintosh , the Laird of Branksome , in Wigtownshire.This William Farintosh was the proprietor of a landed estate , the acreage which bore , unfortunately , a most disproportional relation to its value , for it formed the bleakest and most barren tract of land in the whole of a bleak and barren shire . As a bachelor , however , his expenses had been small , and he had contrived from the rents of his scattered cottages , and the sale of the Galloway nags , which he bred upon the moors , not only to live as a laird should , but to put by a considerable sum in the bank.We had heard little from our kinsman during the days of our comparative prosperity , but just as we were at our wit 's end , there came a letter like a ministering angel , giving us assurance of sympathy and succour . In it the Laird of Branksome told us that one of his lungs had been growing weaker for some time , and that Dr. Easterling , of Stranraer , had strongly advised him to spend the few years which were left to him in some more genial climate . He had determined , therefore to set out for the South of Italy , and he begged that we should take up our residence at Branksome in his absence , and that my father should act as his land steward and agent at a salary which placed us above all fear of want.Our mother had been dead for some years , so that there were only myself , my father , and my sister Esther to consult , and it may be readily imagined that it did not take us long to decide upon the acceptance of the laird 's generous offer . My father started for Wigtown that very night , while Esther and I followed a few days afterwards , bearing with us two potato-sacksful of learned books , and such other of our household effects that were worth the trouble and expense of transport.Branksome might have appeared a poor dwelling-place when compared with the house of an English squire , but to us , after our long residence in stuffy apartments , it was of regal magnificence.The building was broad-spread and low , with red-tiled roof , diamond-paned windows , and a profusion of dwelling rooms with smoke-blackened ceilings and oaken wainscots . In front was a small lawn , girt round with a thin fringe of haggard and ill grown beeches , all gnarled and withered from the effects of the sea-spray . Behind lay the scattered hamlet of Branksome-Bere -- -a dozen cottages at most -- -inhabited by rude fisher-folk who looked upon the laird as their natural protector.To the west was the broad , yellow beach and the Irish Sea , while in all other directions the desolate moors , greyish-green in the foreground and purple in the distance , stretched away in long , low curves to the horizon.Very bleak and lonely it was upon this Wigtown coast . A man might walk many a weary mile and never see a living thing except the white , heavy-flapping kittiwakes , which screamed and cried to each other with their shrill , sad voices.Very lonely and very bleak ! Once out of sight of Branksome and there was no sign of the works of man save only where the high , white tower of Cloomber Hall shot up , like a headstone of some giant grave , from amid the firs and larches which girt it round.This great house , a mile or more from our dwelling , had been built by a wealthy Glasgow merchant of strange tastes and lonely habits , but at the time of our arrival it had been untenanted for many years , and stood with weather-blotched walls and vacant , staring windows looking blankly out over the hill side.Empty and mildewed , it served only as a landmark to the fishermen , for they had found by experience that by keeping the laird 's chimney and the white tower of Cloomber in a line they could steer their way through the ugly reef which raises its jagged back , like that of some sleeping monster , above the troubled waters of the wind-swept bay.To this wild spot it was that Fate had brought my father , my sister , and myself . For us its loneliness had no terrors . After the hubbub and bustle of a great city , and the weary task of upholding appearances upon a slender income , there was a grand , soul-soothing serenity in the long sky-line and the eager air . Here at least there was no neighbour to pry and chatter.The laird had left his phaeton and two ponies behind him , with the aid of which my father and I would go the round of the estate doing such light duties as fall to an agent , or `` factor '' as it was there called , while our gentle Esther looked to our household needs , and brightened the dark old building.Such was our simple , uneventful existence , until the summer night when an unlooked-for incident occurred which proved to be the herald of those strange doings which I have taken up my pen to describe.It had been my habit to pull out of an evening in the laird 's skiff and to catch a few whiting which might serve for our supper . On this well-remembered occasion my sister came with me , sitting with her book in the stern-sheets of the boat , while I hung my lines over the bows.The sun had sunk down behind the rugged Irish coast , but a long bank of flushed cloud still marked the spot , and cast a glory upon the waters . The whole broad ocean was seamed and scarred with crimson streaks . I had risen in the boat , and was gazing round in delight at the broad panorama of shore and sea and sky , when my sister plucked at my sleeve with a little , sharp cry of surprise . `` See , John , '' she cried , `` there is a light in Cloomber Tower ! `` I turned my head and stared back at the tall , white turret which peeped out above the belt of trees . As I gazed I distinctly saw at one of the windows the glint of a light , which suddenly vanished , and then shone out once more from another higher up . There it flickered for some time , and finally flashed past two successive windows underneath before the trees obscured our view of it . It was clear that some one bearing a lamp or a candle had climbed up the tower stairs and had then returned into the body of the house . `` Who in the world can it be ? '' I exclaimed , speaking rather to myself than to Esther , for I could see by the surprise upon her face that she had no solution to offer . `` Maybe some of the folk from Branksome-Bere have wanted to look over the place . `` My sister shook her head . ``