of that bloated , warty , blood-slavering muzzle . Even now I was on its hunting-ground . At any instant it might spring upon me from the shadows -- -this nameless and horrible monster . I stopped , and , picking a cartridge from my pocket , I opened the breech of my gun . As I touched the lever my heart leaped within me . It was the shot-gun , not the rifle , which I had taken ! Again the impulse to return swept over me . Here , surely , was a most excellent reason for my failure -- -one for which no one would think the less of me . But again the foolish pride fought against that very word . I could not -- -must not -- -fail . After all , my rifle would probably have been as useless as a shot-gun against such dangers as I might meet . If I were to go back to camp to change my weapon I could hardly expect to enter and to leave again without being seen . In that case there would be explanations , and my attempt would no longer be all my own . After a little hesitation , then , I screwed up my courage and continued upon my way , my useless gun under my arm.The darkness of the forest had been alarming , but even worse was the white , still flood of moonlight in the open glade of the iguanodons . Hid among the bushes , I looked out at it . None of the great brutes were in sight . Perhaps the tragedy which had befallen one of them had driven them from their feeding-ground . In the misty , silvery night I could see no sign of any living thing . Taking courage , therefore , I slipped rapidly across it , and among the jungle on the farther side I picked up once again the brook which was my guide . It was a cheery companion , gurgling and chuckling as it ran , like the dear old trout-stream in the West Country where I have fished at night in my boyhood . So long as I followed it down I must come to the lake , and so long as I followed it back I must come to the camp . Often I had to lose sight of it on account of the tangled brush-wood , but I was always within earshot of its tinkle and splash.As one descended the slope the woods became thinner , and bushes , with occasional high trees , took the place of the forest . I could make good progress , therefore , and I could see without being seen . I passed close to the pterodactyl swamp , and as I did so , with a dry , crisp , leathery rattle of wings , one of these great creatures -- -it was twenty feet at least from tip to tip -- -rose up from somewhere near me and soared into the air . As it passed across the face of the moon the light shone clearly through the membranous wings , and it looked like a flying skeleton against the white , tropical radiance . I crouched low among the bushes , for I knew from past experience that with a single cry the creature could bring a hundred of its loathsome mates about my ears . It was not until it had settled again that I dared to steal onwards upon my journey.The night had been exceedingly still , but as I advanced I became conscious of a low , rumbling sound , a continuous murmur , somewhere in front of me . This grew louder as I proceeded , until at last it was clearly quite close to me . When I stood still the sound was constant , so that it seemed to come from some stationary cause . It was like a boiling kettle or the bubbling of some great pot . Soon I came upon the source of it , for in the center of a small clearing I found a lake -- -or a pool , rather , for it was not larger than the basin of the Trafalgar Square fountain -- -of some black , pitch-like stuff , the surface of which rose and fell in great blisters of bursting gas . The air above it was shimmering with heat , and the ground round was so hot that I could hardly bear to lay my hand on it . It was clear that the great volcanic outburst which had raised this strange plateau so many years ago had not yet entirely spent its forces . Blackened rocks and mounds of lava I had already seen everywhere peeping out from amid the luxuriant vegetation which draped them , but this asphalt pool in the jungle was the first sign that we had of actual existing activity on the slopes of the ancient crater . I had no time to examine it further for I had need to hurry if I were to be back in camp in the morning.It was a fearsome walk , and one which will be with me so long as memory holds . In the great moonlight clearings I slunk along among the shadows on the margin . In the jungle I crept forward , stopping with a beating heart whenever I heard , as I often did , the crash of breaking branches as some wild beast went past . Now and then great shadows loomed up for an instant and were gone -- -great , silent shadows which seemed to prowl upon padded feet . How often I stopped with the intention of returning , and yet every time my pride conquered my fear , and sent me on again until my object should be attained.At last ( my watch showed that it was one in the morning ) I saw the gleam of water amid the openings of the jungle , and ten minutes later I was among the reeds upon the borders of the central lake . I was exceedingly dry , so I lay down and took a long draught of its waters , which were fresh and cold . There was a broad pathway with many tracks upon it at the spot which I had found , so that it was clearly one of the drinking-places of the animals . Close to the water 's edge there was a huge isolated block of lava . Up this I climbed , and , lying on the top , I had an excellent view in every direction.The first thing which I saw filled me with amazement . When I described the view from the summit of the great tree , I said that on the farther cliff I could see a number of dark spots , which appeared to be the mouths of caves . Now , as I looked up at the same cliffs , I saw discs of light in every direction , ruddy , clearly-defined patches , like the port-holes of a liner in the darkness . For a moment I thought it was the lava-glow from some volcanic action ; but this could not be so . Any volcanic action would surely be down in the hollow and not high among the rocks . What , then , was the alternative ? It was wonderful , and yet it must surely be . These ruddy spots must be the reflection of fires within the caves -- -fires which could only be lit by the hand of man . There were human beings , then , upon the plateau . How gloriously my expedition was justified ! Here was news indeed for us to bear back with us to London ! For a long time I lay and watched these red , quivering blotches of light . I suppose they were ten miles off from me , yet even at that distance one could observe how , from time to time , they twinkled or were obscured as someone passed before them . What would I not have given to be able to crawl up to them , to peep in , and to take back some word to my comrades as to the appearance and character of the race who lived in so strange a place ! It was out of the question for the moment , and yet surely we could not leave the plateau until we had some definite knowledge upon the point.Lake Gladys -- -my own lake -- -lay like a sheet of quicksilver before me , with a reflected moon shining brightly in the center of it . It was shallow , for in many places I saw low sandbanks protruding above the water . Everywhere upon the still surface I could see signs of life , sometimes mere rings and ripples in the water , sometimes the gleam of a great silver-sided fish in the air , sometimes the arched , slate-colored back of some passing monster . Once upon a yellow sandbank I saw a creature like a huge swan , with a clumsy body and a high , flexible neck , shuffling about upon the margin . Presently it plunged in , and for some time I could see the arched neck and darting head undulating over the water . Then it dived , and I saw it no more.My attention was soon drawn away from these distant sights and brought back to what was going on at my very feet . Two creatures like large armadillos had come down to the drinking-place , and were squatting at the edge of the water , their long , flexible tongues like red ribbons shooting in and out as they lapped . A huge deer , with branching horns , a magnificent creature which carried itself like a king , came down with its doe and two fawns and drank beside the armadillos . No such deer exist anywhere else upon earth , for the moose or elks which I have seen would hardly have reached its shoulders . Presently it gave a warning snort , and was off with its family among the reeds , while the armadillos also scuttled for shelter . A new-comer , a most monstrous animal , was coming down the path.For a moment I wondered where I could have seen that ungainly shape , that arched back with triangular fringes along it , that strange bird-like head held close to the ground . Then it came back , to me . It was the stegosaurus -- -the very creature which Maple White had preserved in his sketch-book , and which had been the first object which arrested the attention of Challenger ! There he was -- -perhaps the very specimen which the American artist had encountered . The ground shook beneath his tremendous weight , and his gulpings of water resounded through the still night . For five minutes he was so close to my rock that by stretching out my hand I could have touched the hideous waving hackles upon his back . Then he lumbered away and was lost among the boulders.Looking at my watch , I saw that it was half-past two o'clock , and high time , therefore , that I started upon my homeward journey . There was no difficulty about the direction in which I should return for all along I had kept the little brook upon my left , and it opened into the central lake within a stone's-throw of the boulder upon which I had been lying . I set off , therefore , in high spirits , for I felt that I had done good work and was bringing back a fine budget of news for my companions