that of some wild , tireless woodland creature . She held her left hand in front of her , covered with a red velvet glove , and on the wrist a little brown falcon , very fluffy and bedraggled , which she smoothed and fondled as she walked . As she came out into the sunshine , Alleyne noticed that her light gown , slashed with pink , was all stained with earth and with moss upon one side from shoulder to hem . He stood in the shadow of an oak staring at her with parted lips , for this woman seemed to him to be the most beautiful and graceful creature that mind could conceive of . Such had he imagined the angels , and such he had tried to paint them in the Beaulieu missals ; but here there was something human , were it only in the battered hawk and discolored dress , which sent a tingle and thrill through his nerves such as no dream of radiant and stainless spirit had ever yet been able to conjure up . Good , quiet , uncomplaining mother Nature , long slighted and miscalled , still bides her time and draws to her bosom the most errant of her children.The two walked swiftly across the meadow to the narrow bridge , he in front and she a pace or two behind . There they paused , and stood for a few minutes face to face talking earnestly . Alleyne had read and had heard of love and of lovers . Such were these , doubtless -- -this golden-bearded man and the fair damsel with the cold , proud face . Why else should they wander together in the woods , or be so lost in talk by rustic streams ? And yet as he watched , uncertain whether to advance from the cover or to choose some other path to the house , he soon came to doubt the truth of this first conjecture . The man stood , tall and square , blocking the entrance to the bridge , and throwing out his hands as he spoke in a wild eager fashion , while the deep tones of his stormy voice rose at times into accents of menace and of anger . She stood fearlessly in front of him , still stroking her bird ; but twice she threw a swift questioning glance over her shoulder , as one who is in search of aid . So moved was the young clerk by these mute appeals , that he came forth from the trees and crossed the meadow , uncertain what to do , and yet loth to hold back from one who might need his aid . So intent were they upon each other that neither took note of his approach ; until , when he was close upon them , the man threw his arm roughly round the damsel 's waist and drew her towards him , she straining her lithe , supple figure away and striking fiercely at him , while the hooded hawk screamed with ruffled wings and pecked blindly in its mistress 's defence . Bird and maid , however , had but little chance against their assailant who , laughing loudly , caught her wrist in one hand while he drew her towards him with the other . `` The best rose has ever the longest thorns , '' said he . `` Quiet , little one , or you may do yourself a hurt . Must pay Saxon toll on Saxon land , my proud Maude , for all your airs and graces . `` `` You boor ! '' she hissed . `` You base underbred clod ! Is this your care and your hospitality ? I would rather wed a branded serf from my father 's fields . Leave go , I say -- -- -- Ah ! good youth , Heaven has sent you . Make him loose me ! By the honor of your mother , I pray you to stand by me and to make this knave loose me . `` `` Stand by you I will , and that blithely , '' said Alleyne . `` Surely , sir , you should take shame to hold the damsel against her will . `` The man turned a face upon him which was lion-like in its strength and in its wrath . With his tangle of golden hair , his fierce blue eyes , and his large , well-marked features , he was the most comely man whom Alleyne had ever seen , and yet there was something so sinister and so fell in his expression that child or beast might well have shrunk from him . His brows were drawn , his cheek flushed , and there was a mad sparkle in his eyes which spoke of a wild , untamable nature . `` Young fool ! '' he cried , holding the woman still to his side , though every line of her shrinking figure spoke her abhorrence . `` Do you keep your spoon in your own broth . I rede you to go on your way , lest worse befall you . This little wench has come with me and with me she shall bide. '' '' Liar ! '' cried the woman ; and , stooping her head , she suddenly bit fiercely into the broad brown hand which held her . He whipped it back with an oath , while she tore herself free and slipped behind Alleyne , cowering up against him like the trembling leveret who sees the falcon poising for the swoop above him . `` Stand off my land ! '' the man said fiercely , heedless of the blood which trickled freely from his fingers . `` What have you to do here ? By your dress you should be one of those cursed clerks who overrun the land like vile rats , poking and prying into other men 's concerns , too caitiff to fight and too lazy to work . By the rood ! if I had my will upon ye , I should nail you upon the abbey doors , as they hang vermin before their holes . Art neither man nor woman , young shaveling . Get thee back to thy fellows ere I lay hands upon you : for your foot is on my land , and I may slay you as a common draw-latch . `` `` Is this your land , then ? '' gasped Alleyne . `` Would you dispute it , dog ? Would you wish by trick or quibble to juggle me out of these last acres ? Know , base-born knave , that you have dared this day to stand in the path of one whose race have been the advisers of kings and the leaders of hosts , ere ever this vile crew of Norman robbers came into the land , or such half-blood hounds as you were let loose to preach that the thief should have his booty and the honest man should sin if he strove to win back his own . `` `` You are the Socman of Minstead ? `` `` That am I ; and the son of Edric the Socman , of the pure blood of Godfrey the thane , by the only daughter of the house of Aluric , whose forefathers held the white-horse banner at the fatal fight where our shield was broken and our sword shivered . I tell you , clerk , that my folk held this land from Bramshaw Wood to the Ringwood road ; and , by the soul of my father ! it will be a strange thing if I am to be bearded upon the little that is left of it . Begone , I say , and meddle not with my affair . `` `` If you leave me now , '' whispered the woman , `` then shame forever upon your manhood . `` `` Surely , sir , '' said Alleyne , speaking in as persuasive and soothing a way as he could , `` if your birth is gentle , there is the more reason that your manners should be gentle too . I am well persuaded that you did but jest with this lady , and that you will now permit her to leave your land either alone or with me as a guide , if she should need one , through the wood . As to birth , it does not become me to boast , and there is sooth in what you say as to the unworthiness of clerks , but it is none the less true that I am as well born as you. '' '' Dog ! '' cried the furious Socman , `` there is no man in the south who can say as much . `` `` Yet can I , '' said Alleyne smiling ; `` for indeed I also am the son of Edric the Socman , of the pure blood of Godfrey the thane , by the only daughter of Aluric of Brockenhurst . Surely , dear brother , '' he continued , holding out his hand , `` you have a warmer greeting than this for me . There are but two boughs left upon this old , old Saxon trunk . `` His elder brother dashed his hand aside with an oath , while an expression of malignant hatred passed over his passion-drawn features . `` You are the young cub of Beaulieu , then , '' said he . `` I might have known it by the sleek face and the slavish manner too monk-ridden and craven in spirit to answer back a rough word . Thy father , shaveling , with all his faults , had a man 's heart ; and there were few who could look him in the eyes on the day of his anger . But you ! Look there , rat , on yonder field where the cows graze , and on that other beyond , and on the orchard hard by the church . Do you know that all these were squeezed out of your dying father by greedy priests , to pay for your upbringing in the cloisters ? I , the Socman , am shorn of my lands that you may snivel Latin and eat bread for which you never did hand 's turn . You rob me first , and now you would come preaching and whining , in search mayhap of another field or two for your priestly friends . Knave ! my dogs shall be set upon you ; but , meanwhile , stand out of my path , and stop me at your peril ! '' As he spoke he rushed forward , and , throwing the lad to one side , caught the woman 's wrist . Alleyne , however , as active as a young deer-hound , sprang to her aid and seized her by the other arm , raising his iron-shod staff as he did so . `` You may say what you will to me , '' he said between his clenched teeth -- - '' it may be no better than I deserve ; but , brother or no , I swear by my hopes of salvation that I will break your arm if you do not leave hold of the maid . `` There was a ring in his voice and a flash in his eyes which promised that the blow would follow quick at the heels of the word . For a moment the blood of the long line of hot-headed thanes was too strong for the soft whisperings of the doctrine of meekness and mercy . He was conscious of