scowling face , his bitter threats . Yes , there was some mischief underlying it . But perhaps he might even now be in time to prevent it . There was no use calling Laura . She could be no help in the matter . He hurriedly threw on his clothes , muffled himself in his top-coat , and , seizing his hat and stick , he set off after his father.As he came out into the village street the wind whirled down it , so that he had to put his ear and shoulder against it , and push his way forward . It was better , however , when he turned into the lane . The high bank and the hedge sheltered him upon one side . The road , however , was deep in mud , and the rain fell in a steady swish . Not a soul was to be seen , but he needed to make no inquiries , for he knew whither his father had gone as certainly as though he had seen him.The iron side gate of the avenue was half open , and Robert stumbled his way up the gravelled drive amid the dripping fir-trees . What could his father 's intention be when he reached the Hall ? Was it merely that he wished to spy and prowl , or did he intend to call up the master and enter into some discussion as to his wrongs ? Or was it possible that some blacker and more sinister design lay beneath his strange doings ? Robert thought suddenly of the razor-strop , and gasped with horror . What had the old man been doing with that ? He quickened his pace to a run , and hurried on until he found himself at the door of the Hall.Thank God ! all was quiet there . He stood by the big silent door and listened intently . There was nothing to be heard save the wind and the rain . Where , then , could his father be ? If he wished to enter the Hall he would not attempt to do so by one of the windows , for had he not been present when Raffles Haw had shown them the precautions which he had taken ? But then a sudden thought struck Robert . There was one window which was left unguarded . Haw had been imprudent enough to tell them so . It was the middle window of the laboratory . If he remembered it so clearly , of course his father would remember it too . There was the point of danger.The moment that he had come round the corner of the building he found that his surmise had been correct . An electric lamp burned in the laboratory , and the silver squares of the three large windows stood out clear and bright in the darkness . The centre one had been thrown open , and , even as he gazed , Robert saw a dark monkey-like figure spring up on to the sill , and vanish into the room beyond . For a moment only it outlined itself against the brilliant light beyond , but in that moment Robert had space to see that it was indeed his father . On tiptoe he crossed the intervening space , and peeped in through the open window . It was a singular spectacle which met his eyes.There stood upon the glass table some half-dozen large ingots of gold , which had been made the night before , but which had not been removed to the treasure-house . On these the old man had thrown himself , as one who enters into his rightful inheritance . He lay across the table , his arms clasping the bars of gold , his cheek pressed against them , crooning and muttering to himself . Under the clear , still light , amid the giant wheels and strange engines , that one little dark figure clutching and clinging to the ingots had in it something both weird and piteous.For five minutes or more Robert stood in the darkness amid the rain , looking in at this strange sight , while his father hardly moved save to cuddle closer to the gold , and to pat it with his thin hands . Robert was still uncertain what he should do , when his eyes wandered from the central figure and fell on something else which made him give a little cry of astonishment -- -a cry which was drowned amid the howling of the gale.Raffles Haw was standing in the corner of the room . Where he had come from Robert could not say , but he was certain that he had not been there when he first looked in . He stood silent , wrapped in some long , dark dressing-gown , his arms folded , and a bitter smile upon his pale face . Old McIntyre seemed to see him at almost the same moment , for he snarled out an oath , and clutched still closer at his treasure , looking slantwise at the master of the house with furtive , treacherous eyes . `` And it has really come to this ! '' said Haw at last , taking a step forward . `` You have actually fallen so low , Mr. McIntyre , as to steal into my house at night like a common burglar . You knew that this window was unguarded . I remember telling you as much . But I did not tell you what other means I had adopted by which I might be warned if knaves made an entrance . But that you should have come ! You ! `` The old gunmaker made no attempt to justify himself , but he muttered some few hoarse words , and continued to cling to the treasure . `` I love your daughter , '' said Raffles Haw , `` and for her sake I will not expose you . Your hideous and infamous secret shall be safe with me . No ear shall hear what has happened this night . I will not , as I might , arouse my servants and send for the police . But you must leave my house without further words . I have nothing more to say to you . Go as you have come . `` He took a step forward , and held out his hand as if to detach the old man 's grasp from the golden bars . The other thrust his hand into the breast of his coat , and with a shrill scream of rage flung himself upon the alchemist . So sudden and so fierce was the movement that Haw had no time for defence . A bony hand gripped him by the throat , and the blade of a razor flashed in the air . Fortunately , as it fell , the weapon struck against one of the many wires which spanned the room , and flying out of the old man 's grasp , tinkled upon the stone floor . But , though disarmed , he was still dangerous . With a horrible silent energy he pushed Haw back and back until , coming to a bench , they both fell over it , McIntyre remaining uppermost . His other hand was on the alchemist 's throat , and it might have fared ill with him had Robert not climbed through the window and dragged his father off from him . With the aid of Haw , he pinned the old man down , and passed a long cravat around his arms . It was terrible to look at him , for his face was convulsed , his eyes bulging from his head , and his lips white with foam.Haw leaned against the glass table panting , with his hand to his side . `` You here , Robert ? '' he gasped . `` Is it not horrible ? How did you come ? `` `` I followed him . I heard him go out . `` `` He would have robbed me . And he would have murdered me . But he is mad -- -stark , staring mad ! `` There could be no doubt of it . Old McIntyre was sitting up now , and burst suddenly into a hoarse peal of laughter , rocking himself backwards and forwards , and looking up at them with little twinkling , cunning eyes . It was clear to both of them that his mind , weakened by long brooding over the one idea , had now at last become that of a monomaniac . His horrid causeless mirth was more terrible even than his fury . `` What shall we do with him ? '' asked Haw . `` We can not take him back to Elmdene . It would be a terrible shock to Laura . `` `` We could have doctors to certify in the morning . Could we not keep him here until then ? If we take him back , some one will meet us , and there will be a scandal . `` `` I know . We will take him to one of the padded rooms , where he can neither hurt himself nor anyone else . I am somewhat shaken myself . But I am better now . Do you take one arm , and I will take the other . `` Half-leading and half-dragging him they managed between them to convey the old gunmaker away from the scene of his disaster , and to lodge him for the night in a place of safety . At five in the morning Robert had started in the gig to make the medical arrangements , while Raffles Haw paced his palatial house with a troubled face and a sad heart.It may be that Laura did not look upon the removal of her father as an unmixed misfortune . Nothing was said to her as to the manner of the old man 's seizure , but Robert informed her at breakfast that he had thought it best , acting under medical advice , to place him for a time under some restraint . She had herself frequently remarked upon the growing eccentricity of his manner , so that the announcement could have been no great surprise to her . It is certain that it did not diminish her appetite for the coffee and the scrambled eggs , nor prevent her from chatting a good deal about her approaching wedding.But it was very different with Raffles Haw . The incident had shocked him to his inmost soul . He had often feared lest his money should do indirect evil , but here were crime and madness arising before his very eyes from its influence . In vain he tried to choke down his feelings , and to persuade himself that this attack of old McIntyre 's was something which came of itself -- -something which had no connection with himself or his wealth . He remembered the man as he had first met him , garrulous , foolish , but with no obvious vices . He recalled the change which , week by week , had come over him -- -his greedy eye , his furtive manner , his hints and innuendoes , ending only the day before in a positive demand for money . It was too certain that there was a chain of events there leading direct to the horrible encounter in the laboratory . His money had cast a blight where he had hoped to shed a blessing.Mr . Spurling , the vicar , was up shortly after breakfast , some rumour of evil having come to his ears . It was good for Haw to talk with him , for