. Foremost of all , of course , were the sight of the fiery caves and the certainty that some troglodytic race inhabited them . But besides that I could speak from experience of the central lake . I could testify that it was full of strange creatures , and I had seen several land forms of primeval life which we had not before encountered . I reflected as I walked that few men in the world could have spent a stranger night or added more to human knowledge in the course of it.I was plodding up the slope , turning these thoughts over in my mind , and had reached a point which may have been half-way to home , when my mind was brought back to my own position by a strange noise behind me . It was something between a snore and a growl , low , deep , and exceedingly menacing . Some strange creature was evidently near me , but nothing could be seen , so I hastened more rapidly upon my way . I had traversed half a mile or so when suddenly the sound was repeated , still behind me , but louder and more menacing than before . My heart stood still within me as it flashed across me that the beast , whatever it was , must surely be after ME . My skin grew cold and my hair rose at the thought . That these monsters should tear each other to pieces was a part of the strange struggle for existence , but that they should turn upon modern man , that they should deliberately track and hunt down the predominant human , was a staggering and fearsome thought . I remembered again the blood-beslobbered face which we had seen in the glare of Lord John 's torch , like some horrible vision from the deepest circle of Dante 's hell . With my knees shaking beneath me , I stood and glared with starting eyes down the moonlit path which lay behind me . All was quiet as in a dream landscape . Silver clearings and the black patches of the bushes -- -nothing else could I see . Then from out of the silence , imminent and threatening , there came once more that low , throaty croaking , far louder and closer than before . There could no longer be a doubt . Something was on my trail , and was closing in upon me every minute.I stood like a man paralyzed , still staring at the ground which I had traversed . Then suddenly I saw it . There was movement among the bushes at the far end of the clearing which I had just traversed . A great dark shadow disengaged itself and hopped out into the clear moonlight . I say `` hopped '' advisedly , for the beast moved like a kangaroo , springing along in an erect position upon its powerful hind legs , while its front ones were held bent in front of it . It was of enormous size and power , like an erect elephant , but its movements , in spite of its bulk , were exceedingly alert . For a moment , as I saw its shape , I hoped that it was an iguanodon , which I knew to be harmless , but , ignorant as I was , I soon saw that this was a very different creature . Instead of the gentle , deer-shaped head of the great three-toed leaf-eater , this beast had a broad , squat , toad-like face like that which had alarmed us in our camp . His ferocious cry and the horrible energy of his pursuit both assured me that this was surely one of the great flesh-eating dinosaurs , the most terrible beasts which have ever walked this earth . As the huge brute loped along it dropped forward upon its fore-paws and brought its nose to the ground every twenty yards or so . It was smelling out my trail . Sometimes , for an instant , it was at fault . Then it would catch it up again and come bounding swiftly along the path I had taken.Even now when I think of that nightmare the sweat breaks out upon my brow . What could I do ? My useless fowling-piece was in my hand . What help could I get from that ? I looked desperately round for some rock or tree , but I was in a bushy jungle with nothing higher than a sapling within sight , while I knew that the creature behind me could tear down an ordinary tree as though it were a reed . My only possible chance lay in flight . I could not move swiftly over the rough , broken ground , but as I looked round me in despair I saw a well-marked , hard-beaten path which ran across in front of me . We had seen several of the sort , the runs of various wild beasts , during our expeditions . Along this I could perhaps hold my own , for I was a fast runner , and in excellent condition . Flinging away my useless gun , I set myself to do such a half-mile as I have never done before or since . My limbs ached , my chest heaved , I felt that my throat would burst for want of air , and yet with that horror behind me I ran and I ran and ran . At last I paused , hardly able to move . For a moment I thought that I had thrown him off . The path lay still behind me . And then suddenly , with a crashing and a rending , a thudding of giant feet and a panting of monster lungs the beast was upon me once more . He was at my very heels . I was lost.Madman that I was to linger so long before I fled ! Up to then he had hunted by scent , and his movement was slow . But he had actually seen me as I started to run . From then onwards he had hunted by sight , for the path showed him where I had gone . Now , as he came round the curve , he was springing in great bounds . The moonlight shone upon his huge projecting eyes , the row of enormous teeth in his open mouth , and the gleaming fringe of claws upon his short , powerful forearms . With a scream of terror I turned and rushed wildly down the path . Behind me the thick , gasping breathing of the creature sounded louder and louder . His heavy footfall was beside me . Every instant I expected to feel his grip upon my back . And then suddenly there came a crash -- -I was falling through space , and everything beyond was darkness and rest.As I emerged from my unconsciousness -- -which could not , I think , have lasted more than a few minutes -- -I was aware of a most dreadful and penetrating smell . Putting out my hand in the darkness I came upon something which felt like a huge lump of meat , while my other hand closed upon a large bone . Up above me there was a circle of starlit sky , which showed me that I was lying at the bottom of a deep pit . Slowly I staggered to my feet and felt myself all over . I was stiff and sore from head to foot , but there was no limb which would not move , no joint which would not bend . As the circumstances of my fall came back into my confused brain , I looked up in terror , expecting to see that dreadful head silhouetted against the paling sky . There was no sign of the monster , however , nor could I hear any sound from above . I began to walk slowly round , therefore , feeling in every direction to find out what this strange place could be into which I had been so opportunely precipitated.It was , as I have said , a pit , with sharply-sloping walls and a level bottom about twenty feet across . This bottom was littered with great gobbets of flesh , most of which was in the last state of putridity . The atmosphere was poisonous and horrible . After tripping and stumbling over these lumps of decay , I came suddenly against something hard , and I found that an upright post was firmly fixed in the center of the hollow . It was so high that I could not reach the top of it with my hand , and it appeared to be covered with grease.Suddenly I remembered that I had a tin box of wax-vestas in my pocket . Striking one of them , I was able at last to form some opinion of this place into which I had fallen . There could be no question as to its nature . It was a trap -- -made by the hand of man . The post in the center , some nine feet long , was sharpened at the upper end , and was black with the stale blood of the creatures who had been impaled upon it . The remains scattered about were fragments of the victims , which had been cut away in order to clear the stake for the next who might blunder in . I remembered that Challenger had declared that man could not exist upon the plateau , since with his feeble weapons he could not hold his own against the monsters who roamed over it . But now it was clear enough how it could be done . In their narrow-mouthed caves the natives , whoever they might be , had refuges into which the huge saurians could not penetrate , while with their developed brains they were capable of setting such traps , covered with branches , across the paths which marked the run of the animals as would destroy them in spite of all their strength and activity . Man was always the master.The sloping wall of the pit was not difficult for an active man to climb , but I hesitated long before I trusted myself within reach of the dreadful creature which had so nearly destroyed me . How did I know that he was not lurking in the nearest clump of bushes , waiting for my reappearance ? I took heart , however , as I recalled a conversation between Challenger and Summerlee upon the habits of the great saurians . Both were agreed that the monsters were practically brainless , that there was no room for reason in their tiny cranial cavities , and that if they have disappeared from the rest of the world it was assuredly on account of their own stupidity , which made it impossible for them to adapt themselves to changing conditions.To lie in wait for me now would mean that the creature had appreciated what had happened to me , and this in turn would argue some power connecting cause and effect . Surely it was more likely that a brainless creature , acting solely by vague predatory instinct , would give up the chase when I disappeared , and , after a pause of astonishment , would wander away in search of some other prey ? I clambered to the edge of the pit and looked over . The stars were fading , the sky was whitening , and the cold wind of morning blew pleasantly upon my face . I could see or hear nothing of my enemy . Slowly I climbed out and sat for a while upon the