sight of the band of horsemen , threw up their arms and dived in among the brushwood , as shy and as swift as wild animals . More than once , however , they came on families by the wayside , who were too weak from hunger and disease to fly , so that they could but sit like hares on a tussock , with panting chests and terror in their eyes . So gaunt were these poor folk , so worn and spent -- -with bent and knotted frames , and sullen , hopeless , mutinous faces -- -that it made the young Englishman heart-sick to look upon them . Indeed , it seemed as though all hope and light had gone so far from them that it was not to be brought back ; for when Sir Nigel threw down a handful of silver among them there came no softening of their lined faces , but they clutched greedily at the coins , peering questioningly at him , and champing with their animal jaws . Here and there amid the brushwood the travellers saw the rude bundle of sticks which served them as a home -- -more like a fowl 's nest than the dwelling-place of man . Yet why should they build and strive , when the first adventurer who passed would set torch to their thatch , and when their own feudal lord would wring from them with blows and curses the last fruits of their toil ? They sat at the lowest depth of human misery , and hugged a bitter comfort to their souls as they realized that they could go no lower . Yet they had still the human gift of speech , and would take council among themselves in their brushwood hovels , glaring with bleared eyes and pointing with thin fingers at the great widespread chateaux which ate like a cancer into the life of the country-side . When such men , who are beyond hope and fear , begin in their dim minds to see the source of their woes , it may be an evil time for those who have wronged them . The weak man becomes strong when he has nothing , for then only can he feel the wild , mad thrill of despair . High and strong the chateaux , lowly and weak the brushwood hut ; but God help the seigneur and his lady when the men of the brushwood set their hands to the work of revenge ! Through such country did the party ride for eight or it might be nine miles , until the sun began to slope down in the west and their shadows to stream down the road in front of them . Wary and careful they must be , with watchful eyes to the right and the left , for this was no man 's land , and their only passports were those which hung from their belts . Frenchmen and Englishmen , Gascon and Provencal , Brabanter , Tardvenu , Scorcher , Flayer , and Free Companion , wandered and struggled over the whole of this accursed district . So bare and cheerless was the outlook , and so few and poor the dwellings , that Sir Nigel began to have fears as to whether he might find food and quarters for his little troop . It was a relief to him , therefore , when their narrow track opened out upon a larger road , and they saw some little way down it a square white house with a great bunch of holly hung out at the end of a stick from one of the upper windows . `` By St . Paul ! '' said he , `` I am right glad ; for I had feared that we might have neither provant nor herbergage . Ride on , Alleyne , and tell this inn-keeper that an English knight with his party will lodge with him this night . `` Alleyne set spurs to his horse and reached the inn door a long bow-shot before his companions . Neither varlet nor ostler could be seen , so he pushed open the door and called loudly for the landlord . Three times he shouted , but , receiving no reply , he opened an inner door and advanced into the chief guest-room of the hostel.A very cheerful wood-fire was sputtering and cracking in an open grate at the further end of the apartment . At one side of this fire , in a high-backed oak chair , sat a lady , her face turned towards the door . The firelight played over her features , and Alleyne thought that he had never seen such queenly power , such dignity and strength , upon a woman 's face . She might have been five-and-thirty years of age , with aquiline nose , firm yet sensitive mouth , dark curving brows , and deep-set eyes which shone and sparkled with a shifting brilliancy . Beautiful as she was , it was not her beauty which impressed itself upon the beholder ; it was her strength , her power , the sense of wisdom which hung over the broad white brow , the decision which lay in the square jaw and delicately moulded chin . A chaplet of pearls sparkled amid her black hair , with a gauze of silver network flowing back from it over her shoulders ; a black mantle was swathed round her , and she leaned back in her chair as one who is fresh from a journey.In the opposite corner there sat a very burly and broad-shouldered man , clad in a black jerkin trimmed with sable , with a black velvet cap with curling white feather cocked upon the side of his head . A flask of red wine stood at his elbow , and he seemed to be very much at his ease , for his feet were stuck up on a stool , and between his thighs he held a dish full of nuts . These he cracked between his strong white teeth and chewed in a leisurely way , casting the shells into the blaze . As Alleyne gazed in at him he turned his face half round and cocked an eye at him over his shoulder . It seemed to the young Englishman that he had never seen so hideous a face , for the eyes were of the lightest green , the nose was broken and driven inwards , while the whole countenance was seared and puckered with wounds . The voice , too , when he spoke , was as deep and as fierce as the growl of a beast of prey . `` Young man , '' said he , `` I know not who you may be , and I am not much inclined to bestir myself , but if it were not that I am bent upon taking my ease , I swear , by the sword of Joshua ! that I would lay my dog-whip across your shoulders for daring to fill the air with these discordant bellowings . `` Taken aback at this ungentle speech , and scarce knowing how to answer it fitly in the presence of the lady , Alleyne stood with his hand upon the handle of the door , while Sir Nigel and his companions dismounted . At the sound of these fresh voices , and of the tongue in which they spoke , the stranger crashed his dish of nuts down upon the floor , and began himself to call for the landlord until the whole house re-echoed with his roarings . With an ashen face the white-aproned host came running at his call , his hands shaking and his very hair bristling with apprehension . `` For the sake of God , sirs , '' he whispered as he passed , `` speak him fair and do not rouse him ! For the love of the Virgin , be mild with him ! `` `` Who is this , then ? '' asked Sir Nigel.Alleyne was about to explain , when a fresh roar from the stranger interrupted him . `` Thou villain inn-keeper , '' he shouted , `` did I not ask you when I brought my lady here whether your inn was clean ? `` `` You did , sire . `` `` Did I not very particularly ask you whether there were any vermin in it ? `` `` You did , sire . `` `` And you answered me ? `` `` That there were not , sire . `` `` And yet ere I have been here an hour I find Englishmen crawling about within it . Where are we to be free from this pestilent race ? Can a Frenchman upon French land not sit down in a French auberge without having his ears pained by the clack of their hideous talk ? Send them packing , inn-keeper , or it may be the worse for them and for you . `` `` I will , sire , I will ! '' cried the frightened host , and bustled from the room , while the soft , soothing voice of the woman was heard remonstrating with her furious companion . `` Indeed , gentlemen , you had best go , '' said mine host . `` It is but six miles to Villefranche , where there are very good quarters at the sign of the 'Lion Rouge . ' '' '' Nay , '' answered Sir Nigel , `` I can not go until I have seen more of this person , for he appears to be a man from whom much is to be hoped . What is his name and title ? `` `` It is not for my lips to name it unless by his desire . But I beg and pray you , gentlemen , that you will go from my house , for I know not what may come of it if his rage should gain the mastery of him . `` `` By Saint Paul ! '' lisped Sir Nigel , `` this is certainly a man whom it is worth journeying far to know . Go tell him that a humble knight of England would make his further honorable acquaintance , not from any presumption , pride , or ill-will , but for the advancement of chivalry and the glory of our ladies . Give him greeting from Sir Nigel Loring , and say that the glove which I bear in my cap belongs to the most peerless and lovely of her sex , whom I am now ready to uphold against any lady whose claim he might be desirous of advancing . `` The landlord was hesitating whether to carry this message or no , when the door of the inner room was flung open , and the stranger bounded out like a panther from its den , his hair bristling and his deformed face convulsed with anger . `` Still here ! '' he snarled . `` Dogs of England , must ye be lashed hence ? Tiphaine , my sword ! '' He turned to seize his weapon , but as he did so his gaze fell upon the blazonry of sir Nigel 's shield , and he stood staring , while the fire in his strange green eyes softened into a sly and humorous twinkle . `` Mort Dieu ! '' cried he , `` it is my little swordsman of Bordeaux . I should remember that coat-armor , seeing that it is but three days since I looked upon it in the lists by Garonne . Ah ! Sir Nigel , Sir Nigel ! you owe me a return for this , '' and he touched his right