Hussars and young Blakesley , who was my fag at Charterhouse , and whom I have never seen since.Punch and cigarsal frescoup to eleven o'clock.Letters to-day from Wills & Co. about their little bill forwarded on from Delhi . Thought a campaign freed a man from these annoyances . Wills says in his note that , since his written applications have been in vain , he must call upon me in person . If he calls upon me now he will assuredly be the boldest and most persevering of tailors.A line from Calcutta Daisy and another from Hobhouse to say that Matilda comes in for all the money under the will . I am glad of it.October 3. -- -Glorious news from the Front today . Barclay , of the Madras Cavalry , galloped through with dispatches . Pollock entered Cabul triumphantly on the 16th of last month , and , better still , Lady Sale has been rescued by Shakespear , and brought safe into the British camp , together with the other hostages.Te Deum laudamus ! This should end the whole wretched business -- -this and the sack of the city . I hope Pollock wo n't be squeamish , or truckle to the hysterical party at home . The towns should be laid in ashes and the fields sown with salt . Above all , the Residency and the Palace must come down . So shall Burnes , McNaghten , and many another gallant fellow know that his countrymen could avenge if they could not save him ! It is hard when others are gaining glory and experience to be stuck in this miserable valley . I have been out of it completely , bar a few petty skirmishes . However , we may see some service yet.A jemidar of ours brought in a Hillman today , who says that the tribes are massing in the Terada ravine , ten miles to the north of us , and intend attacking the next convoy . We ca n't rely on information of this sort , but there may prove to be some truth in it . Proposed to shoot our informant , so as to prevent his playing the double traitor and reporting our proceedings . Elliott demurred.If you are making war you should throw no chance away . I hate half-and-half measures . The Children of Israel seem to have been the only people who ever carried war to its logical conclusion -- -except Cromwell in Ireland . Made a compromise at last by which the man is to be detained as a prisoner and executed if his information prove to be false . I only hope we get a fair chance of showing what we can do.No doubt these fellows at the Front will have C.B . 's and knighthoods showering upon them thick and fast , while we poor devils , who have had most of the responsibility and anxiety , will be passed over completely . Elliott has a whitlow.The last convoy left us a large packet of sauces , but as they forgot to leave anything to eat with them , we have handed them over to the Sowars , who drink them out of their pannikins as if they were liqueurs . We hear that another large convoy may be expected from the plains in the course of a day or two . Took nine to four on Cleopatra for the Calcutta Cup.October 4. -- -The Hillmen really mean business this time , I think . We have had two of our spies come in this morning with the same account about the gathering in the Terada quarter . That old rascal Zemaun is at the head of it , and I had recommended the Government to present him with a telescope in return for his neutrality ! There will be no Zemaun to present it to if I can but lay hands upon him.We expect the convoy tomorrow morning , and need anticipate no attack until it comes up , for these fellows fight for plunder , not for glory , though , to do them justice , they have plenty of pluck when they get started . I have devised an excellent plan , and it has Elliott 's hearty support . By Jove ! if we can only manage it , it will be as pretty a ruse as ever I heard of.Our intention is to give out that we are going down the valley to meet the convoy and to block the mouth of a pass from which we profess to expect an attack . Very good . We shall make a night-march to-night and reach their camp . Once there I shall conceal my two hundred men in the waggons and travel up with the convoy again.Our friends the enemy , having heard that we intended to go south , and seeing the caravan going north without us , will naturally swoop down upon it under the impression that we are twenty miles away . We shall teach them such a lesson that they would as soon think of stopping a thunderbolt as of interfering again with one of Her Britannic Majesty 's provision trains . I am all on thorns to be off.Elliott has rigged up two of his guns so ingeniously that they look more like costermongers ' barrows than anything else . To see artillery ready for action in the convoy might arouse suspicion . The artillerymen will be in the waggons next the guns , all ready to unlimber and open fire . Infantry in front and rear . Have told our confidential and discreet Sepoy servants the plan which we do not intend to adopt . N.B. -- -If you wish a thing to be noised over a whole province always whisper it under a vow of secrecy to your confidential native servant.8.45 P.M. -- -Just starting for the convoy . May luck go with us ! October 5. -- -Seven o'clock in the evening.Io triumphe ! Crown us with laurel -- -Elliott and myself ! Who can compare with us as vermin killers ? I have only just got back , tired and weary , stained with blood and dust , but I have sat down before either washing or changing to have the satisfaction of seeing our deeds set forth in black and white -- -if only in my private log for no eye but my own . I shall describe it all fully as a preparation for an official account , which must be drawn up when Elliott gets back . Billy Dawson used to say that there were three degrees of comparison -- -a prevarication , a lie , and an official account . We at least can not exaggerate our success , for it would be impossible to add anything to it.We set out , then , as per programme , and came upon the camp near the head of the valley . They had two weak companies of the 54th with them who might no doubt have held their own with warning , but an unexpected rush of wild Hillmen is a very difficult thing to stand against . With our reinforcements , however , and on our guard , we might defy the rascals.Chamberlain was in command -- -a fine young fellow . We soon made him understand the situation , and were all ready for a start by daybreak though his waggons were so full that we were compelled to leave several tons of fodder behind in order to make room for my Sepoys and for the artillery.About five o'clock we inspanned , to use an Africanism , and by six we were well on our way , with our escort as straggling and unconcerned as possible -- -as helpless-looking a caravan as ever invited attack.I could soon see that it was to be no false alarm this time , and that the tribes really meant business.From my post of observation , under the canvas screens of one of the waggons , I could make out turbaned heads popping up to have a look at us from among the rocks , and an occasional scout hurrying northward with the news of our approach.It was not , however , until we came abreast of the Terada Pass , a gloomy defile bounded by gigantic cliffs , that the Afridis began to show in force , though they had ambushed themselves so cleverly that , had we not been keenly on the look-out for them , we might have walked right into the trap . As it was , the convoy halted , upon which the Hillmen , seeing that they were observed , opened a heavy but ill-directed fire upon us.I had asked Chamberlain to throw out his men in skirmishing order , and to give them directions to retreat slowly upon the waggons so as to draw the Afridis on . The ruse succeeded to perfection.As the redcoats steadily retired , keeping behind cover as much as possible , the enemy followed them up with yells of exultation , springing from rock to rock , waving their jezails in the air , and howling like a pack of demons.With their black , contorted , mocking faces , their fierce gestures , and their fluttering garments , they would have made a study for any painter who wished to portray Milton 's conception of the army of the damned.From every side they pressed in until , seeing , as they thought , nothing between them and victory , they left the shelter of the rocks and came rushing down , a furious , howling throng , with the green banner of the Prophet in their van.Now was our chance , and gloriously we utilised it.From every cranny and slit of the waggons came a blaze of fire , every shot of which told among the close-packed mob . Two or three score rolled over like rabbits and the rest reeled for a moment , and then , with their chiefs at their head , came on again in a magnificent rush.It was useless , however , for undisciplined men to attempt to face such a well-directed fire . The leaders were bowled over , and the others , after hesitating for a few moments , turned and made for the rocks.It was our turn now to assume the offensive . The guns were unlimbered and grape poured into them , while our little infantry force advanced at the double , shooting and stabbing all whom they overtook.Never had I known the tide of battle turn so rapidly and so decisively . The sullen retreat became a flight , and the flight a panic-stricken rout , until there was nothing left of the tribesmen except a scattered , demoralised rabble flying wildly to their native fastnesses for shelter and protection.I was by no means inclined to let them off cheaply now that I had them in my power . On the contrary , I determined to teach them such a lesson that the sight of a single scarlet uniform would in future be a passport in itself.We followed hard upon the track of the fugitives and entered the Terada defile at their very heels . Having detached Chamberlain and Elliott with a company on either side to protect my wings , I pushed on with my Sepoys and a handful of artillerymen , giving the enemy no time to rally or to recover themselves . We were so handicapped , however , by our stiff European uniforms and by our want of practice in climbing , that we should have been unable to overtake any of the mountaineers had it not been for a fortunate accident.There is a smaller ravine which opens into the main pass , and in their hurry and confusion some of the