fugitives rushed down this . I saw sixty or seventy of them turn down , but I should have passed them by and continued in pursuit of the main body had not one of my scouts come rustling up to inform me that the smaller ravine was acul-de-sac , and that the Afridis who had gone up it had no possible means of getting out again except by cutting their way through our ranks.Here was an opportunity of striking terror into the tribes . Leaving Chamberlain and Elliott to continue the pursuit of the main body , I wheeled my Sepoys into the narrow path and proceeded slowly down it in extended order , covering the whole ground from cliff to cliff . Not a jackal could have passed us unseen . The rebels were caught like rats in a trap.The defile in which we found ourselves was the most gloomy and majestic that I have ever seen . On either side naked precipices rose sheer up for a thousand feet or more , converging upon each other so as to leave a very narrow slit of daylight above us , which was further reduced by the feathery fringe of palm trees and aloes which hung over each lip of the chasm.The cliffs were not more than a couple of hundred yards apart at the entrance , but as we advanced they grew nearer and nearer , until a half company in close order could hardly march abreast.A sort of twilight reigned in this strange valley , and the dim , uncertain light made the great , basalt rocks loom up vague and fantastic . There was no path , and the ground was most uneven , but I pushed on briskly , cautioning my fellows to have their fingers on their triggers , for I could see that we were nearing the point where the two cliffs would form an acute angle with each other.At last we came in sight of the place . A great pile of boulders was heaped up at the very end of the pass , and among these our fugitives were skulking , entirely demoralised apparently , and incapable of resistance . They were useless as prisoners , and it was out of the question to let them go , so there was no choice but to polish them off.Waving my sword , I was leading my men on , when we had a most dramatic interruption of a sort which I have seen once or twice on the boards of Drury Lane , but never in real life.In the side of the cliff , close to the pile of stones where the Hillmen were making their last stand , there was a cave which looked more like the lair of some wild beast than a human habitation.Out of this dark archway there suddenly emerged an old man -- -such a very , very old man that all the other veterans whom I have seen were as chickens compared with him . His hair and beard were both as white as snow , and each reached more than half-way to his waist . His face was wrinkled and brown and ebony , a cross between a monkey and a mummy , and so thin and emaciated were his shrivelled limbs that you would hardly have given him credit for having any vitality left , were it not for his eyes , which glittered and sparkled with excitement , like two diamonds in a setting of mahogany.This apparition came rushing out of the cave , and , throwing himself between the fugitives and our fellows , motioned us back with as imperious a sweep of the hand as ever an emperor used to his slaves . `` Men of blood , '' he cried , in a voice of thunder , speaking excellent English , too -- - '' this is a place for prayer and meditation , not for murder . Desist , lest the wrath of the gods fall upon you . `` `` Stand aside , old man , '' I shouted . `` You will meet with a hurt if you do n't get out of the way . `` I could see that the Hillmen were taking heart , and that some of my Sepoys were flinching , as if they did not relish this new enemy . Clearly , I must act promptly if I wished to complete our success.I dashed forward at the head of the white artillerymen who had stuck to me . The old fellow rushed at us with his arms out as if to stop us , but it was not time to stick at trifles , so I passed my sword through his body at the same moment that one of the gunners brought his carbine down upon his head . He dropped instantly , and the Hillmen , at the sight of his fall , set up the most unearthly howl of horror and consternation.The Sepoys , who had been inclined to hang back , came on again the moment he was disposed of , and it did not take us long to consummate our victory . Hardly a man of the enemy got out of the defile alive.What could Hannibal or Caesar have done more ? Our own loss in the whole affair has been insignificant -- -three killed and about fifteen wounded . Got their banner , a green wisp of a thing with a sentence of the Koran engraved upon it.I looked , after the action , for the old chap , but his body had disappeared , though how or whither I have no conception . His blood be upon his own head ! He would be alive now if he had not interfered , as the constables say at home , `` with an officer in the execution of his duty . `` The scouts tell me that his name was Ghoolab Shah , and that he was one of the highest and holiest of the Buddhists . He had great fame in the district as a prophet and worker of miracles -- -hence the hubbub when he was cut down . They tell me that he was living in this very cave when Tamerlane passed this way in 1399 , with a lot more bosh of that sort.I went into the cave , and how any man could live in it a week is a mystery to me , for it was little more than four feet high , and as damp and dismal a grotto as ever was seen . A wooden settle and a rough table were the sole furniture , with a lot of parchment scrolls with hieroglyphics.Well , he has gone where he will learn that the gospel of peace and good will is superior to all his Pagan lore . Peace go with him.Elliott and Chamberlain never caught the main body -- -I knew they would n't -- -so the honours of the day rest with me . I ought to get a step for it , anyhow , and perhaps , who knows ? some mention in theGazette . What a lucky chance ! I think Zemaun deserves his telescope after all for giving it to me . Shall have something to eat now , for I am half starved . Glory is an excellent thing , but you can not live upon it.October 6 , 11 A.M. -- -Let me try to set down as calmly and as accurately as I can all that occurred last night . I have never been a dreamer or a visionary , so I can rely upon my own senses , though I am bound to say that if any other fellow had told me the same thing I should have doubted him . I might even have suspected that I was deceived at the time had I not heard the bell since . However , I must narrate what happened.Elliott was in my tent with me having a quiet cheroot until about ten o'clock . I then walked the rounds with my jemidar , and having seen that all was right I turned in a little before eleven.I was just dropping off to sleep , for I was dog-tired after the day 's work , when I was aroused by some slight noise , and , looking round , I saw a man dressed in Asiatic costume standing at the entrance of my tent . He was motionless when I saw him , and he had his eyes fixed upon me with a solemn and stern expression.My first thought was that the fellow was some Ghazi or Afghan fanatic who had stolen in with the intention of stabbing me , and with this idea in my mind I had all the will to spring from my couch and defend myself , but the power was unaccountably lacking.An overpowering languor and want of energy possessed me . Had I seen the dagger descending upon my breast I could not have made an effort to avert it . I suppose a bird when it is under the influence of a snake feels very much as I did in the presence of this gloomy-faced stranger . My mind was clear enough , but my body was as torpid as though I were still asleep.I shut my eyes once or twice and tried to persuade myself that the whole thing was a delusion , but every time that I opened them there was the man still regarding me with the same stony , menacing stare.The silence became unendurable . I felt that I must overcome my languor so far as to address him . I am not a nervous man , and I never knew before what Virgil meant when he wrote `` adhoesit faucibus ora . '' At last I managed to stammer out a few words , asking the intruder who he was and what he wanted . `` Lieutenant Heatherstone , '' he answered , speaking slowly and gravely , `` you have committed this day the foulest sacrilege and the greatest crime which it is possible for man to do . You have slain one of the thrice blessed and reverend ones , an arch adept of the first degree , an elder brother who has trod the higher path for more years than you have numbered months . You have cut him off at a time when his labours promised to reach a climax and when he was about to attain a height of occult knowledge which would have brought man one step nearer to his Creator . All this you have done without excuse , without provocation , at a time when he was pleading the cause of the helpless and distressed . Listen now to me , John Heatherstone . `` When first the occult sciences were pursued many thousands of years ago , it was found by the learned that the short tenure of human existence was too limited to allow a man to attain the loftiest heights of inner life . The inquirers of those days directed their energies in the first place , therefore , to the lengthening of their own days in order that they might have more scope for improvement . `` By their knowledge of the secret laws of Nature they were enabled to fortify their bodies against disease and old age . It only remained to protect themselves against the assaults of wicked and violent men who are ever ready to destroy what is wiser and nobler than themselves . There was no direct means by which this protection could be effected , but it was in some measure attained by arranging the occult forces in such a way that a terrible and unavoidable retribution should await the offender . `` It was