irrevocably ordained by laws which can not be reversed that any one who should shed the blood of a brother who had attained a certain degree of sanctity should be a doomed man . Those laws are extant to this day , John Heatherstone , and you have placed yourself in their power . King or emperor would be helpless before the forces which you have called into play . What hope , then , is there for you ? `` In former days these laws acted so instantaneously that the slayer perished with his victim . It was judged afterwards that this prompt retribution prevented the offender from having time to realise the enormity of his offence . `` It was therefore ordained that in all such cases the retribution should be left in the hands of thechelas , or immediate disciples of the holy man , with power to extend or shorten it at their will , exacting it either at the time or at any future anniversary of the day when the crime was committed . `` Why punishment should come on those days only it does not concern you to know . Suffice it that you are the murderer of Ghoolab Shah , the thrice blessed , and that I am the senior of his threechelascommissioned to avenge his death . `` It is no personal matter between us . Amid our studies we have no leisure or inclination for personal matters . It is an immutable law , and it is as impossible for us to relax it as it is for you to escape from it . Sooner or later we shall come to you and claim your life in atonement for the one which you have taken . `` The same fate shall be meted out to the wretched soldier , Smith , who , though less guilty than yourself , has incurred the same penalty by raising his sacrilegious hand against the chosen of Buddha . If your life is prolonged , it is merely that you may have time to repent of your misdeed and to feel the full force of your punishment . `` And lest you should be tempted to cast it out of your mind and to forget it , our bell -- -our astral bell , the use of which is one of our occult secrets -- -shall ever remind you of what have been and what is to be . You shall hear it by day and you shall hear it by night , and it will be a sign to you that do what you may and go where you will , you can never shake yourself clear of thechelasof Ghoolab Shah . `` You will never see me more , accursed one , until the day when we come for you . Live in fear , and in that anticipation which is worse than death . `` With a menacing wave of the hand the figure turned and swept out of my tent into the darkness . The instant that the fellow disappeared from my sight I recovered from my lethargy which had fallen upon me . Springing to my feet , I rushed to the opening and looked out . A Sepoy sentry was standing leaning upon his musket , a few paces off . `` You dog , '' I said in Hindustani . `` What do you mean by letting people disturb me in this way ? `` The man stared at me in amazement . `` Has any one disturbed the sahib ? '' he asked . `` This instant -- -this moment . You must have seen him pass out of my tent . `` `` Surely the Burra Sahib is mistaken , '' the man answered , respectfully but firmly . `` I have been here for an hour , and no one has passed from the tent . `` Puzzled and disconcerted , I was sitting by the side of my couch wondering whether the whole thing were a delusion , brought on by the nervous excitement of our skirmish , when a new marvel overtook me . From over my head there suddenly sounded a sharp , tinkling sound , like that produced by an empty glass when flipped by the nail , only louder and more intense.I looked up , but nothing was to be seen . I examined the whole interior of the tent carefully , but without discovering any cause for the strange sound . At last , worn out with fatigue , I gave the mystery up , and throwing myself on the couch was soon fast asleep.When I awoke this morning I was inclined to put the whole of my yesternight 's experiences down to imagination , but I was soon disabused of the idea , for I had hardly risen before the same strange sound was repeated in my very ear as loudly , and to all appearance as causelesly , as before . What it is or where it comes from I can not conceive . I have not heard it since.Can the fellow 's threats have something in them and this be the warning bell of which he spoke ? Surely it is impossible . Yet his manner was indescribably impressive.I have tried to set down what he said as accurately as I can , but I fear I have omitted a good deal . What is to be the end of this strange affair ? I must go in for a course of religion and holy water . Not a word to Chamberlain or Elliott . They tell me I am looking like a ghost this morning.Evening . -- -Have managed to compare notes with Gunner Rufus Smith of the Artillery , who knocked the old fellow over with the butt of his gun . His experience has been the same as mine . He has heard the sound , too . What is the meaning of it all ? My brain is in a whirl.Oct . 10 ( four days later ) . -- -God help us ! This last laconic entry terminated the journal . It seemed to me that , coming as it did after four days ' complete silence , it told a clearer tale of shaken nerve and a broken spirit than could any more elaborate narrative . Pinned on to the journal was a supplementary statement which had evidently been recently added by the general . `` From that day to this , '' it said , `` I have had no night or day free from the intrusion of that dreadful sound with its accompanying train of thought . Time and custom have brought me no relief , but on the contrary , as the years pass over my head my physical strength decreases and my nerves become less able to bear up against the continual strain . `` I am a broken man in mind and body . I live in a state of tension , always straining my ears for the hated sound , afraid to converse with my fellows for fear of exposing my dreadful condition to them , with no comfort or hope of comfort on this side of the grave . I should be willing , Heaven knows , to die , and yet as each 5th of October comes round , I am prostrated with fear because I do not know what strange and terrible experience may be in store for me . `` Forty years have passed since I slew Ghoolab Shah , and forty times I have gone through all the horrors of death , without attaining the blessed peace which lies beyond . `` I have no means of knowing in what shape my fate will come upon me . I have immured myself in this lonely country , and surrounded myself with barriers , because in my weaker moments my instincts urge me to take some steps for self-protection , but I know well in my heart how futile it all is . They must come quickly now , for I grow old , and Nature will forestall them unless they make haste . `` I take credit to myself that I have kept my hands off the prussic-acid or opium bottle . It has always been in my power to checkmate my occult persecutors in that way , but I have ever held that a man in this world can not desert his post until he has been relieved in due course by the authorities . I have had no scruples , however , about exposing myself to danger , and , during the Sikh and Sepoy wars , I did all that a man could do to court Death . He passed me by , however , and picked out many a young fellow to whom life was only opening and who had everything to live for , while I survived to win crosses and honours which had lost all relish for me . `` Well , well , these things can not depend upon chance , and there is no doubt some deep reason for it all . `` One compensation Providence has made me in the shape of a true and faithful wife , to whom I told my dreadful secret before the wedding , and who nobly consented to share my lot . She has lifted half the burden from my shoulders , but with the effect , poor soul , of crushing her own life beneath its weight ! `` My children , too , have been a comfort to me . Mordaunt knows all , or nearly all . Gabriel we have endeavoured to keep in the dark , though we can not prevent her from knowing that there is something amiss . `` I should like this statement to be shown to Dr. John Easterling of Stranraer . He heard on one occasion this haunting sound . My sad experience may show him that I spoke truth when I said that there was much knowledge in the world which has never found its way to England. '' J . B . HEATHERSTONE . `` It was going on for dawn by the time that I had finished this extraordinary narrative , to which my sister and Mordaunt Heatherstone listened with the most absorbed attention . Already we could see through the window that the stars had begun to fade and a grey light to appear in the east . The crofter who owned the lurcher dog lived a couple of miles off , so it was time for us to be on foot . Leaving Esther to tell my father the story in such fashion as she might , we thrust some food in our pockets and set off upon our solemn and eventful errand.It was dark enough when we started to make it no easy matter to find our way across the moors , but as we advanced it grew lighter and lighter , until by the time we reached Fullarton 's cabin it was broad daylight.Early as it was , he was up and about , for the Wigtown peasants are an early rising race . We explained our mission to him in as few words as possible , and having made his bargain -- -what Scot ever neglected that preliminary ? -- -he agreed not only to let us have the use of his dog but to come with us himself.Mordaunt , in his desire for privacy , would have demurred at this arrangement , but I pointed out to him that we had no idea what was in store for us , and the addition of a strong , able-bodied man to our party might prove to be of the utmost consequence.Again , the dog was less likely