A gold-embroidered belt of knighthood encircled his loins , with his arms , five roses gules on a field argent , cunningly worked upon the clasp . So stood Sir Nigel Loring upon the bridge of Avon , and talked lightly with his lady.And , certes , had the two visages alone been seen , and the stranger been asked which were the more likely to belong to the bold warrior whose name was loved by the roughest soldiery of Europe , he had assuredly selected the lady 's . Her face was large and square and red , with fierce , thick brows , and the eyes of one who was accustomed to rule . Taller and broader than her husband , her flowing gown of sendall , and fur-lined tippet , could not conceal the gaunt and ungraceful outlines of her figure . It was the age of martial women . The deeds of black Agnes of Dunbar , of Lady Salisbury and of the Countess of Montfort , were still fresh in the public minds . With such examples before them the wives of the English captains had become as warlike as their mates , and ordered their castles in their absence with the prudence and discipline of veteran seneschals . Right easy were the Montacutes of their Castle of Twynham , and little had they to dread from roving galley or French squadron , while Lady Mary Loring had the ordering of it . Yet even in that age it was thought that , though a lady might have a soldier 's heart , it was scarce as well that she should have a soldier 's face . There were men who said that of all the stern passages and daring deeds by which Sir Nigel Loring had proved the true temper of his courage , not the least was his wooing and winning of so forbidding a dame . `` I tell you , my fair lord , '' she was saying , `` that it is no fit training for a demoiselle : hawks and hounds , rotes and citoles singing a French rondel , or reading the Gestes de Doon de Mayence , as I found her yesternight , pretending sleep , the artful , with the corner of the scroll thrusting forth from under her pillow . Lent her by Father Christopher of the priory , forsooth -- -that is ever her answer . How shall all this help her when she has castle of her own to keep , with a hundred mouths all agape for beef and beer ? `` `` True , my sweet bird , true , '' answered the knight , picking a comfit from his gold drageoir . `` The maid is like the young filly , which kicks heels and plunges for very lust of life . Give her time , dame , give her time . `` `` Well , I know that my father would have given me , not time , but a good hazel-stick across my shoulders . Ma foi ! I know not what the world is coming to , when young maids may flout their elders . I wonder that you do not correct her , my fair lord . `` `` Nay , my heart 's comfort , I never raised hand to woman yet , and it would be a passing strange thing if I began on my own flesh and blood . It was a woman 's hand which cast this lime into mine eyes , and though I saw her stoop , and might well have stopped her ere she threw , I deemed it unworthy of my knighthood to hinder or balk one of her sex . `` `` The hussy ! '' cried Lady Loring clenching her broad right hand . `` I would I had been at the side of her ! `` `` And so would I , since you would have been the nearer me my own . But I doubt not that you are right , and that Maude 's wings need clipping , which I may leave in your hands when I am gone , for , in sooth , this peaceful life is not for me , and were it not for your gracious kindness and loving care I could not abide it a week . I hear that there is talk of warlike muster at Bordeaux once more , and by St. Paul ! it would be a new thing if the lions of England and the red pile of Chandos were to be seen in the field , and the roses of Loring were not waving by their side . `` `` Now woe worth me but I feared it ! '' cried she , with the color all struck from her face . `` I have noted your absent mind , your kindling eye , your trying and riveting of old harness . Consider my sweet lord , that you have already won much honor , that we have seen but little of each other , that you bear upon your body the scar of over twenty wounds received in I know not how many bloody encounters . Have you not done enough for honor and the public cause ? `` `` My lady , when our liege lord , the king , at three score years , and my Lord Chandos at three-score and ten , are blithe and ready to lay lance in rest for England 's cause , it would ill be-seem me to prate of service done . It is sooth that I have received seven and twenty wounds . There is the more reason that I should be thankful that I am still long of breath and sound in limb . I have also seen some bickering and scuffling . Six great land battles I count , with four upon sea , and seven and fifty onfalls , skirmishes and bushments . I have held two and twenty towns , and I have been at the intaking of thirty-one . Surely then it would be bitter shame to me , and also to you , since my fame is yours , that I should now hold back if a man 's work is to be done . Besides , bethink you how low is our purse , with bailiff and reeve ever croaking of empty farms and wasting lands . Were it not for this constableship which the Earl of Salisbury hath bestowed upon us we could scarce uphold the state which is fitting to our degree . Therefore , my sweeting , there is the more need that I should turn to where there is good pay to be earned and brave ransoms to be won . `` `` Ah , my dear lord , '' quoth she , with sad , weary eyes . `` I thought that at last I had you to mine own self , even though your youth had been spent afar from my side . Yet my voice , as I know well , should speed you on to glory and renown , not hold you back when fame is to be won . Yet what can I say , for all men know that your valor needs the curb and not the spur . It goes to my heart that you should ride forth now a mere knight bachelor , when there is no noble in the land who hath so good a claim to the square pennon , save only that you have not the money to uphold it . `` `` And whose fault that , my sweet bird ? '' said he . `` No fault , my fair lord , but a virtue : for how many rich ransoms have you won , and yet have scattered the crowns among page and archer and varlet , until in a week you had not as much as would buy food and forage . It is a most knightly largesse , and yet withouten money how can man rise ? `` `` Dirt and dross ! '' cried he . `` What matter rise or fall , so that duty be done and honor gained . Banneret or bachelor , square pennon or forked , I would not give a denier for the difference , and the less since Sir John Chandos , chosen flower of English chivalry , is himself but a humble knight . But meanwhile fret not thyself , my heart 's dove , for it is like that there may be no war waged , and we must await the news . But here are three strangers , and one , as I take it , a soldier fresh from service . It is likely that he may give us word of what is stirring over the water . `` Lady Loring , glancing up , saw in the fading light three companions walking abreast down the road , all gray with dust , and stained with travel , yet chattering merrily between themselves . He in the midst was young and comely , with boyish open face and bright gray eyes , which glanced from right to left as though he found the world around him both new and pleasing . To his right walked a huge red-headed man , with broad smile and merry twinkle , whose clothes seemed to be bursting and splitting at every seam , as though he were some lusty chick who was breaking bravely from his shell . On the other side , with his knotted hand upon the young man 's shoulder , came a stout and burly archer , brown and fierce eyed , with sword at belt and long yellow yew-stave peeping over his shoulder . Hard face , battered head piece , dinted brigandine , with faded red lion of St. George ramping on a discolored ground , all proclaimed as plainly as words that he was indeed from the land of war . He looked keenly at Sir Nigel as he approached , and then , plunging his hand under his breastplate , he stepped up to him with a rough , uncouth bow to the lady . `` Your pardon , fair sir , '' said he , `` but I know you the moment I clap eyes on you , though in sooth I have seen you oftener in steel than in velvet . I have drawn string besides you at La Roche-d'Errien , Romorantin , Maupertuis , Nogent , Auray , and other places . `` `` Then , good archer , I am right glad to welcome you to Twynham Castle , and in the steward 's room you will find provant for yourself and comrades . To me also your face is known , though mine eyes play such tricks with me that I can scarce be sure of my own squire . Rest awhile , and you shall come to the hall anon and tell us what is passing in France , for I have heard that it is likely that our pennons may flutter to the south of the great Spanish mountains ere another year be passed . `` `` There was talk of it in Bordeaux , '' answered the archer , `` and I saw myself that the armorers and smiths were as busy as rats in a wheat-rick . But I bring you this letter from the valiant Gascon knight , Sir Claude Latour . And to you , Lady , '' he added after a pause , `` I bring from him this box of red sugar of Narbonne , with every courteous and knightly greeting which a gallant cavalier may make to a fair and noble dame . `` This little