and made all escape impossible . Then , right out from all the others and close to the edge of the cliff , were two figures , so strange , and under other circumstances so ludicrous , that they absorbed my attention . The one was our comrade , Professor Challenger . The remains of his coat still hung in strips from his shoulders , but his shirt had been all torn out , and his great beard merged itself in the black tangle which covered his mighty chest . He had lost his hat , and his hair , which had grown long in our wanderings , was flying in wild disorder . A single day seemed to have changed him from the highest product of modern civilization to the most desperate savage in South America . Beside him stood his master , the king of the ape-men . In all things he was , as Lord John had said , the very image of our Professor , save that his coloring was red instead of black . The same short , broad figure , the same heavy shoulders , the same forward hang of the arms , the same bristling beard merging itself in the hairy chest . Only above the eyebrows , where the sloping forehead and low , curved skull of the ape-man were in sharp contrast to the broad brow and magnificent cranium of the European , could one see any marked difference . At every other point the king was an absurd parody of the Professor.All this , which takes me so long to describe , impressed itself upon me in a few seconds . Then we had very different things to think of , for an active drama was in progress . Two of the ape-men had seized one of the Indians out of the group and dragged him forward to the edge of the cliff . The king raised his hand as a signal . They caught the man by his leg and arm , and swung him three times backwards and forwards with tremendous violence . Then , with a frightful heave they shot the poor wretch over the precipice . With such force did they throw him that he curved high in the air before beginning to drop . As he vanished from sight , the whole assembly , except the guards , rushed forward to the edge of the precipice , and there was a long pause of absolute silence , broken by a mad yell of delight . They sprang about , tossing their long , hairy arms in the air and howling with exultation . Then they fell back from the edge , formed themselves again into line , and waited for the next victim.This time it was Summerlee . Two of his guards caught him by the wrists and pulled him brutally to the front . His thin figure and long limbs struggled and fluttered like a chicken being dragged from a coop . Challenger had turned to the king and waved his hands frantically before him . He was begging , pleading , imploring for his comrade 's life . The ape-man pushed him roughly aside and shook his head . It was the last conscious movement he was to make upon earth . Lord John 's rifle cracked , and the king sank down , a tangled red sprawling thing , upon the ground . `` Shoot into the thick of them ! Shoot ! sonny , shoot ! '' cried my companion.There are strange red depths in the soul of the most commonplace man . I am tenderhearted by nature , and have found my eyes moist many a time over the scream of a wounded hare . Yet the blood lust was on me now . I found myself on my feet emptying one magazine , then the other , clicking open the breech to re-load , snapping it to again , while cheering and yelling with pure ferocity and joy of slaughter as I did so . With our four guns the two of us made a horrible havoc . Both the guards who held Summerlee were down , and he was staggering about like a drunken man in his amazement , unable to realize that he was a free man . The dense mob of ape-men ran about in bewilderment , marveling whence this storm of death was coming or what it might mean . They waved , gesticulated , screamed , and tripped up over those who had fallen . Then , with a sudden impulse , they all rushed in a howling crowd to the trees for shelter , leaving the ground behind them spotted with their stricken comrades . The prisoners were left for the moment standing alone in the middle of the clearing.Challenger 's quick brain had grasped the situation . He seized the bewildered Summerlee by the arm , and they both ran towards us . Two of their guards bounded after them and fell to two bullets from Lord John . We ran forward into the open to meet our friends , and pressed a loaded rifle into the hands of each . But Summerlee was at the end of his strength . He could hardly totter . Already the ape-men were recovering from their panic . They were coming through the brushwood and threatening to cut us off . Challenger and I ran Summerlee along , one at each of his elbows , while Lord John covered our retreat , firing again and again as savage heads snarled at us out of the bushes . For a mile or more the chattering brutes were at our very heels . Then the pursuit slackened , for they learned our power and would no longer face that unerring rifle . When we had at last reached the camp , we looked back and found ourselves alone.So it seemed to us ; and yet we were mistaken . We had hardly closed the thornbush door of our zareba , clasped each other 's hands , and thrown ourselves panting upon the ground beside our spring , when we heard a patter of feet and then a gentle , plaintive crying from outside our entrance . Lord Roxton rushed forward , rifle in hand , and threw it open . There , prostrate upon their faces , lay the little red figures of the four surviving Indians , trembling with fear of us and yet imploring our protection . With an expressive sweep of his hands one of them pointed to the woods around them , and indicated that they were full of danger . Then , darting forward , he threw his arms round Lord John 's legs , and rested his face upon them . `` By George ! '' cried our peer , pulling at his moustache in great perplexity , `` I say -- -what the deuce are we to do with these people ? Get up , little chappie , and take your face off my boots . `` Summerlee was sitting up and stuffing some tobacco into his old briar . `` We 've got to see them safe , '' said he . `` You 've pulled us all out of the jaws of death . My word ! it was a good bit of work ! '' '' Admirable ! '' cried Challenger . `` Admirable ! Not only we as individuals , but European science collectively , owe you a deep debt of gratitude for what you have done . I do not hesitate to say that the disappearance of Professor Summerlee and myself would have left an appreciable gap in modern zoological history . Our young friend here and you have done most excellently well . `` He beamed at us with the old paternal smile , but European science would have been somewhat amazed could they have seen their chosen child , the hope of the future , with his tangled , unkempt head , his bare chest , and his tattered clothes . He had one of the meat-tins between his knees , and sat with a large piece of cold Australian mutton between his fingers . The Indian looked up at him , and then , with a little yelp , cringed to the ground and clung to Lord John 's leg . `` Do n't you be scared , my bonnie boy , '' said Lord John , patting the matted head in front of him . `` He ca n't stick your appearance , Challenger ; and , by George ! I do n't wonder . All right , little chap , he 's only a human , just the same as the rest of us . `` `` Really , sir ! '' cried the Professor . `` Well , it 's lucky for you , Challenger , that you ARE a little out of the ordinary . If you had n't been so like the king -- -- -- '' '' Upon my word , Lord John , you allow yourself great latitude . `` `` Well , it 's a fact . `` `` I beg , sir , that you will change the subject . Your remarks are irrelevant and unintelligible . The question before us is what are we to do with these Indians ? The obvious thing is to escort them home , if we knew where their home was . `` `` There is no difficulty about that , '' said I . `` They live in the caves on the other side of the central lake . `` `` Our young friend here knows where they live . I gather that it is some distance . `` `` A good twenty miles , '' said I.Summerlee gave a groan . `` I , for one , could never get there . Surely I hear those brutes still howling upon our track . `` As he spoke , from the dark recesses of the woods we heard far away the jabbering cry of the ape-men . The Indians once more set up a feeble wail of fear . `` We must move , and move quick ! '' said Lord John . `` You help Summerlee , young fellah . These Indians will carry stores . Now , then , come along before they can see us . `` In less than half-an-hour we had reached our brushwood retreat and concealed ourselves . All day we heard the excited calling of the ape-men in the direction of our old camp , but none of them came our way , and the tired fugitives , red and white , had a long , deep sleep . I was dozing myself in the evening when someone plucked my sleeve , and I found Challenger kneeling beside me . `` You keep a diary of these events , and you expect eventually to publish it , Mr. Malone , '' said he , with solemnity . `` I am only here as a Press reporter , '' I answered. '' Exactly . You may have heard some rather fatuous remarks of Lord John Roxton 's which seemed to imply that there was some -- -some resemblance -- -- -- '' '' Yes , I heard them . `` `` I need not say that any publicity given to such an idea -- -any levity in your narrative of what occurred -- -would be exceedingly offensive to me . `` `` I will keep well within the truth . `` `` Lord John 's observations are frequently exceedingly fanciful , and he is capable of attributing the most absurd reasons to the respect which is always shown by the most undeveloped races to dignity and character . You follow