over my father 's head for a certain action of his early life . In this action he was associated with the man known as Corporal Rufus Smith , so that the fact of the latter finding his way to my father was a warning to us that the time had come , and that this 5th of October -- -the anniversary of the misdeed -- -would be the day of its atonement . I told you of our fears in my letter , and , if I am not mistaken , my father also had some conversation with you , John , upon the subject . When I saw yesterday morning that he had hunted out the old uniform which he had always retained since he wore it in the Afghan war , I was sure that the end was at hand , and that our forebodings would be realised . `` He appeared to be more composed in the afternoon than I have seen him for years , and spoke freely of his life in India and of the incidents of his youth . About nine o'clock he requested us to go up to our own rooms , and locked us in there -- -a precaution which he frequently took when the dark fit was upon him . It was always his endeavour , poor soul , to keep us clear of the curse which had fallen upon his own unfortunate head . Before parting from us he tenderly embraced my mother and Gabriel , and he afterwards followed me to my room , where he clasped my hand affectionately and gave into my charge a small packet addressed to yourself . `` `` To me ? '' I interrupted . `` To you . I shall fulfill my commission when I have told you my story . I conjured him to allow me to sit up with him and share any danger which might arise , but he implored me with irresistible earnestness not to add to his troubles by thwarting his arrangements . Seeing that I was really distressing him by my pertinacity , I at last allowed him to close the door and to turn the key upon the outside . I shall always reproach myself for my want of firmness . But what can you do when your own father refuses your assistance or co-operation ? You can not force yourself upon him . `` `` I am sure that you did all you could do , '' my sister said . `` I meant to , dear Esther , but , God help me , it was hard to tell what was right . He left me , and I heard his footsteps die away down the long corridor . It was then about ten o'clock , or a little after . For a time I paced up and down the room , and then , carrying the lamp to the head of my bed , I lay down without undressing , reading St. Thomas a Kempis , and praying from my heart that the night might pass safely over us . `` I had at last fallen into a troubled sleep when I was suddenly aroused by a loud , sonorous sound ringing in my ears . I sat up bewildered , but all was silent again . The lamp was burning low , and my watch showed me that it was going on to midnight . I blundered to my feet , and was striking a match with the intention of lighting the candles , when the sharp , vehement cry broke out again so loud and so clear that it might have been in the very room with me . My chamber is in the front of the house , while those of my mother and sister are at the back , so that I am the only one who commands a view of the avenue . `` Rushing to the window I drew the blind aside and looked out . You know that the gravel-drive opens up so as to form a broad stretch immediately in front of the house . Just in the centre of this clear space there stood three men looking up at the house . `` The moon shone full upon them , glistening on their upturned eyeballs , and by its light I could see that they were swarthy-faced and black-haired , of a type that I was familiar with among the Sikhs and Afridis . Two of them were thin , with eager , aesthetic countenances , while the third was kinglike and majestic , with a noble figure and flowing beard . `` `` Ram Singh ! '' I ejaculated . `` What , you know of them ? '' exclaimed Mordaunt in great surprise . `` You have met them ? `` `` I know of them . They are Buddhist priests , '' I answered , `` but go on . `` `` They stood in a line , '' he continued , `` sweeping their arms upwards and downwards , while their lips moved as if repeating some prayer or incantation . Suddenly they ceased to gesticulate , and broke out for the third time into the wild , weird , piercing cry which had roused me from my slumber . Never shall I forget that shrill , dreadful summons swelling and reverberating through the silent night with an intensity of sound which is still ringing in my ears . `` As it died slowly away , there was a rasping and creaking as of keys and bolts , followed by the clang of an opening door and the clatter of hurrying feet . From my window I saw my father and Corporal Rufus Smith rush frantically out of the house hatless and unkempt , like men who are obeying a sudden and overpowering impulse . The three strangers laid no hands on them , but all five swept swiftly away down the avenue and vanished among the trees . I am positive that no force was used , or constraint of any visible kind , and yet I am as sure that my poor father and his companion were helpless prisoners as if I had seen them dragged away in manacles . `` All this took little time in the acting . From the first summons which disturbed my sleep to the last shadowy glimpse which I had of them between the tree trunks could hardly have occupied more than five minutes of actual time . So sudden was it , and so strange , that when the drama was over and they were gone I could have believed that it was all some terrible nightmare , some delusion , had I not felt that the impression was too real , too vivid , to be imputed to fancy . `` I threw my whole weight against my bedroom door in the hope of forcing the lock . It stood firm for a while , but I flung myself upon it again and again , until something snapped and I found myself in the passage . `` My first thought was for my mother . I rushed to her room and turned the key in her door . The moment that I did so she stepped out into the corridor in her dressing-gown , and held up a warning finger . `` 'No noise , ' she said , Gabriel is asleep . They have been called away ? ' '' 'They have , ' I answered . `` 'God 's will be done ! ' she cried . 'Your poor father will be happier in the next world than he has ever been in this . Thank Heaven that Gabriel is asleep . I gave her chloral in her cocoa . ' '' 'What am I to do ? ' I said distractedly . `` 'Where have they gone ? How can I help him ? We can not let him go from us like this , or leave these men to do what they will with him . Shall I ride into Wigtown and arouse the police ? ' '' 'Anything rather than that , ' my mother said earnestly . 'He has begged me again and again to avoid it . My son , we shall never set eyes upon your father again . You may marvel at my dry eyes , but if you knew as I know the peace which death would bring him , you could not find it in your heart to mourn for him . All pursuit is , I feel , vain , and yet some pursuit there must be . Let it be as private as possible . We can not serve him better than by consulting his wishes . ' '' 'But every minute is precious , ' I cried . 'Even now he may be calling upon us to rescue him from the clutches of those dark-skinned fiends . ' '' The thought so maddened me that I rushed out of the house and down to the high road , but once there I had no indication in which direction to turn . The whole wide moor lay before me , without a sign of movement upon its broad expanse . I listened , but not a sound broke the perfect stillness of the night . `` It was then , my dear friends , as I stood , not knowing in which direction to turn , that the horror and responsibility broke full upon me . I felt that I was combating against forces of which I knew nothing . All was strange and dark and terrible . `` The thought of you , and of the help which I might look for from your advice and assistance , was a beacon of hope to me . At Branksome , at least , I should receive sympathy , and , above all , directions as to what I should do , for my mind is in such a whirl that I can not trust my own judgment . My mother was content to be alone , my sister asleep , and no prospect of being able to do anything until daybreak . Under those circumstances what more natural than that I should fly to you as fast as my feet would carry me ? You have a clear head , Jack ; speak out , man , and tell me what I should do . Esther , what should I do ? `` He turned from one to the other of us with outstretched hands and eager , questioning eyes . `` You can do nothing while the darkness lasts , '' I answered . `` We must report the matter to the Wigtown police , but we need not send our message to them until we are actually starting upon the search , so as to comply with the law and yet have a private investigation , as your mother wishes . John Fullarton , over the hill , has a lurcher dog which is as good as a bloodhound . If we set him on the general 's trail he will run him down if he had to follow him to John o ' Groat 's . `` `` It is terrible to wait calmly here while he may need our assistance . `` `` I fear our assistance could under any circumstances do him little good . There are forces at work here which are beyond human intervention . Besides , there is no alternative . We have , apparently , no possible clue as to the direction which they have taken , and for us to wander aimlessly over the moor in the darkness would be to waste the strength which