the person of Professor Sergius , the famous Zoologist of the University of Upsala . The entrance of the four heroes of the occasion was the signal for a remarkable demonstration of welcome , the whole audience rising and cheering for some minutes . An acute observer might , however , have detected some signs of dissent amid the applause , and gathered that the proceedings were likely to become more lively than harmonious . It may safely be prophesied , however , that no one could have foreseen the extraordinary turn which they were actually to take . `` Of the appearance of the four wanderers little need be said , since their photographs have for some time been appearing in all the papers . They bear few traces of the hardships which they are said to have undergone . Professor Challenger 's beard may be more shaggy , Professor Summerlee 's features more ascetic , Lord John Roxton 's figure more gaunt , and all three may be burned to a darker tint than when they left our shores , but each appeared to be in most excellent health . As to our own representative , the well-known athlete and international Rugby football player , E. D. Malone , he looks trained to a hair , and as he surveyed the crowd a smile of good-humored contentment pervaded his honest but homely face . '' ( All right , Mac , wait till I get you alone ! ) '' When quiet had been restored and the audience resumed their seats after the ovation which they had given to the travelers , the chairman , the Duke of Durham , addressed the meeting . 'He would not , ' he said , 'stand for more than a moment between that vast assembly and the treat which lay before them . It was not for him to anticipate what Professor Summerlee , who was the spokesman of the committee , had to say to them , but it was common rumor that their expedition had been crowned by extraordinary success . ' ( Applause . ) 'Apparently the age of romance was not dead , and there was common ground upon which the wildest imaginings of the novelist could meet the actual scientific investigations of the searcher for truth . He would only add , before he sat down , that he rejoiced -- -and all of them would rejoice -- -that these gentlemen had returned safe and sound from their difficult and dangerous task , for it can not be denied that any disaster to such an expedition would have inflicted a well-nigh irreparable loss to the cause of Zoological science . ' ( Great applause , in which Professor Challenger was observed to join . ) '' Professor Summerlee 's rising was the signal for another extraordinary outbreak of enthusiasm , which broke out again at intervals throughout his address . That address will not be given in extenso in these columns , for the reason that a full account of the whole adventures of the expedition is being published as a supplement from the pen of our own special correspondent . Some general indications will therefore suffice . Having described the genesis of their journey , and paid a handsome tribute to his friend Professor Challenger , coupled with an apology for the incredulity with which his assertions , now fully vindicated , had been received , he gave the actual course of their journey , carefully withholding such information as would aid the public in any attempt to locate this remarkable plateau . Having described , in general terms , their course from the main river up to the time that they actually reached the base of the cliffs , he enthralled his hearers by his account of the difficulties encountered by the expedition in their repeated attempts to mount them , and finally described how they succeeded in their desperate endeavors , which cost the lives of their two devoted half-breed servants . '' ( This amazing reading of the affair was the result of Summerlee 's endeavors to avoid raising any questionable matter at the meeting . ) '' Having conducted his audience in fancy to the summit , and marooned them there by reason of the fall of their bridge , the Professor proceeded to describe both the horrors and the attractions of that remarkable land . Of personal adventures he said little , but laid stress upon the rich harvest reaped by Science in the observations of the wonderful beast , bird , insect , and plant life of the plateau . Peculiarly rich in the coleoptera and in the lepidoptera , forty-six new species of the one and ninety-four of the other had been secured in the course of a few weeks . It was , however , in the larger animals , and especially in the larger animals supposed to have been long extinct , that the interest of the public was naturally centered . Of these he was able to give a goodly list , but had little doubt that it would be largely extended when the place had been more thoroughly investigated . He and his companions had seen at least a dozen creatures , most of them at a distance , which corresponded with nothing at present known to Science . These would in time be duly classified and examined . He instanced a snake , the cast skin of which , deep purple in color , was fifty-one feet in length , and mentioned a white creature , supposed to be mammalian , which gave forth well-marked phosphorescence in the darkness ; also a large black moth , the bite of which was supposed by the Indians to be highly poisonous . Setting aside these entirely new forms of life , the plateau was very rich in known prehistoric forms , dating back in some cases to early Jurassic times . Among these he mentioned the gigantic and grotesque stegosaurus , seen once by Mr. Malone at a drinking-place by the lake , and drawn in the sketch-book of that adventurous American who had first penetrated this unknown world . He described also the iguanodon and the pterodactyl -- -two of the first of the wonders which they had encountered . He then thrilled the assembly by some account of the terrible carnivorous dinosaurs , which had on more than one occasion pursued members of the party , and which were the most formidable of all the creatures which they had encountered . Thence he passed to the huge and ferocious bird , the phororachus , and to the great elk which still roams upon this upland . It was not , however , until he sketched the mysteries of the central lake that the full interest and enthusiasm of the audience were aroused . One had to pinch oneself to be sure that one was awake as one heard this sane and practical Professor in cold measured tones describing the monstrous three-eyed fish-lizards and the huge water-snakes which inhabit this enchanted sheet of water . Next he touched upon the Indians , and upon the extraordinary colony of anthropoid apes , which might be looked upon as an advance upon the pithecanthropus of Java , and as coming therefore nearer than any known form to that hypothetical creation , the missing link . Finally he described , amongst some merriment , the ingenious but highly dangerous aeronautic invention of Professor Challenger , and wound up a most memorable address by an account of the methods by which the committee did at last find their way back to civilization . `` It had been hoped that the proceedings would end there , and that a vote of thanks and congratulation , moved by Professor Sergius , of Upsala University , would be duly seconded and carried ; but it was soon evident that the course of events was not destined to flow so smoothly . Symptoms of opposition had been evident from time to time during the evening , and now Dr. James Illingworth , of Edinburgh , rose in the center of the hall . Dr. Illingworth asked whether an amendment should not be taken before a resolution . `` THE CHAIRMAN : 'Yes , sir , if there must be an amendment. ' '' DR . ILLINGWORTH : 'Your Grace , there must be an amendment . ' '' THE CHAIRMAN : 'Then let us take it at once . ' '' PROFESSOR SUMMERLEE ( springing to his feet ) : 'Might I explain , your Grace , that this man is my personal enemy ever since our controversy in the Quarterly Journal of Science as to the true nature of Bathybius ? ' '' THE CHAIRMAN : 'I fear I can not go into personal matters . Proceed. ' '' Dr . Illingworth was imperfectly heard in part of his remarks on account of the strenuous opposition of the friends of the explorers . Some attempts were also made to pull him down . Being a man of enormous physique , however , and possessed of a very powerful voice , he dominated the tumult and succeeded in finishing his speech . It was clear , from the moment of his rising , that he had a number of friends and sympathizers in the hall , though they formed a minority in the audience . The attitude of the greater part of the public might be described as one of attentive neutrality. '' Dr . Illingworth began his remarks by expressing his high appreciation of the scientific work both of Professor Challenger and of Professor Summerlee . He much regretted that any personal bias should have been read into his remarks , which were entirely dictated by his desire for scientific truth . His position , in fact , was substantially the same as that taken up by Professor Summerlee at the last meeting . At that last meeting Professor Challenger had made certain assertions which had been queried by his colleague . Now this colleague came forward himself with the same assertions and expected them to remain unquestioned . Was this reasonable ? ( 'Yes , ' 'No , ' and prolonged interruption , during which Professor Challenger was heard from the Press box to ask leave from the chairman to put Dr. Illingworth into the street . ) A year ago one man said certain things . Now four men said other and more startling ones . Was this to constitute a final proof where the matters in question were of the most revolutionary and incredible character ? There had been recent examples of travelers arriving from the unknown with certain tales which had been too readily accepted . Was the London Zoological Institute to place itself in this position ? He admitted that the members of the committee were men of character . But human nature was very complex . Even Professors might be misled by the desire for notoriety . Like moths , we all love best to flutter in the light . Heavy-game shots liked to be in a position to cap the tales of their rivals , and journalists were not averse from sensational coups , even when imagination had to aid fact in the process . Each member of the committee had his own motive for making the most of his results . ( 'Shame ! shame ! ' ) He had no desire to be offensive . ( 'You are ! ' and interruption . ) The corroboration of these wondrous tales was really of the most slender description . What did it amount to ? Some photographs . \ { Was it possible that in this age of ingenious manipulation photographs could be accepted as evidence ? \ } What more ? We