each four , the said brother John did drain the pot at one draught to the detriment of brother Paul , brother Porphyry and brother Ambrose , who could scarce eat their none-meat of salted stock-fish on account of their exceeding dryness . `` At this solemn indictment the novice raised his hand and twitched his lip , while even the placid senior brothers glanced across at each other and coughed to cover their amusement . The Abbot alone sat gray and immutable , with a drawn face and a brooding eye . `` Item , that having been told by the master of the novices that he should restrict his food for two days to a single three-pound loaf of bran and beans , for the greater honoring and glorifying of St. Monica , mother of the holy Augustine , he was heard by brother Ambrose and others to say that he wished twenty thousand devils would fly away with the said Monica , mother of the holy Augustine , or any other saint who came between a man and his meat . Item , that upon brother Ambrose reproving him for this blasphemous wish , he did hold the said brother face downwards over the piscatorium or fish-pond for a space during which the said brother was able to repeat a pater and four aves for the better fortifying of his soul against impending death . `` There was a buzz and murmur among the white-frocked brethren at this grave charge ; but the Abbot held up his long quivering hand . `` What then ? '' said he . `` Item , that between nones and vespers on the feast of James the Less the said brother John was observed upon the Brockenhurst road , near the spot which is known as Hatchett 's Pond in converse with a person of the other sex , being a maiden of the name of Mary Sowley , the daughter of the King 's verderer . Item , that after sundry japes and jokes the said brother John did lift up the said Mary Sowley and did take , carry , and convey her across a stream , to the infinite relish of the devil and the exceeding detriment of his own soul , which scandalous and wilful falling away was witnessed by three members of our order . `` A dead silence throughout the room , with a rolling of heads and upturning of eyes , bespoke the pious horror of the community.The Abbot drew his gray brows low over his fiercely questioning eyes . `` Who can vouch for this thing ? '' he asked . `` That can I , '' answered the accuser . `` So too can brother Porphyry , who was with me , and brother Mark of the Spicarium , who hath been so much stirred and inwardly troubled by the sight that he now lies in a fever through it . `` `` And the woman ? '' asked the Abbot . `` Did she not break into lamentation and woe that a brother should so demean himself ? `` `` Nay , she smiled sweetly upon him and thanked him . I can vouch it and so can brother Porphyry . `` `` Canst thou ? '' cried the Abbot , in a high , tempestuous tone . `` Canst thou so ? Hast forgotten that the five-and-thirtieth rule of the order is that in the presence of a woman the face should be ever averted and the eyes cast down ? Hast forgot it , I say ? If your eyes were upon your sandals , how came ye to see this smile of which ye prate ? A week in your cells , false brethren , a week of rye-bread and lentils , with double lauds and double matins , may help ye to remembrance of the laws under which ye live . `` At this sudden outflame of wrath the two witnesses sank their faces on to their chests , and sat as men crushed . The Abbot turned his angry eyes away from them and bent them upon the accused , who met his searching gaze with a firm and composed face . `` What hast thou to say , brother John , upon these weighty things which are urged against you ? `` `` Little enough , good father , little enough , '' said the novice , speaking English with a broad West Saxon drawl . The brothers , who were English to a man , pricked up their ears at the sound of the homely and yet unfamiliar speech ; but the Abbot flushed red with anger , and struck his hand upon the oaken arm of his chair . `` What talk is this ? '' he cried . `` Is this a tongue to be used within the walls of an old and well-famed monastery ? But grace and learning have ever gone hand in hand , and when one is lost it is needless to look for the other . `` `` I know not about that , '' said brother John . `` I know only that the words come kindly to my mouth , for it was the speech of my fathers before me . Under your favor , I shall either use it now or hold my peace . `` The Abbot patted his foot and nodded his head , as one who passes a point but does not forget it . `` For the matter of the ale , '' continued brother John , `` I had come in hot from the fields and had scarce got the taste of the thing before mine eye lit upon the bottom of the pot . It may be , too , that I spoke somewhat shortly concerning the bran and the beans , the same being poor provender and unfitted for a man of my inches . It is true also that I did lay my hands upon this jack-fool of a brother Ambrose , though , as you can see , I did him little scathe . As regards the maid , too , it is true that I did heft her over the stream , she having on her hosen and shoon , whilst I had but my wooden sandals , which could take no hurt from the water . I should have thought shame upon my manhood , as well as my monkhood , if I had held back my hand from her . '' He glanced around as he spoke with the half-amused look which he had worn during the whole proceedings . `` There is no need to go further , '' said the Abbot . `` He has confessed to all . It only remains for me to portion out the punishment which is due to his evil conduct . `` He rose , and the two long lines of brothers followed his example , looking sideways with scared faces at the angry prelate . `` John of Hordle , '' he thundered , `` you have shown yourself during the two months of your novitiate to be a recreant monk , and one who is unworthy to wear the white garb which is the outer symbol of the spotless spirit . That dress shall therefore be stripped from thee , and thou shalt be cast into the outer world without benefit of clerkship , and without lot or part in the graces and blessings of those who dwell under the care of the Blessed Benedict . Thou shalt come back neither to Beaulieu nor to any of the granges of Beaulieu , and thy name shall be struck off the scrolls of the order . `` The sentence appeared a terrible one to the older monks , who had become so used to the safe and regular life of the Abbey that they would have been as helpless as children in the outer world . From their pious oasis they looked dreamily out at the desert of life , a place full of stormings and strivings -- -comfortless , restless , and overshadowed by evil . The young novice , however , appeared to have other thoughts , for his eyes sparkled and his smile broadened . It needed but that to add fresh fuel to the fiery mood of the prelate . `` So much for thy spiritual punishment , '' he cried . `` But it is to thy grosser feelings that we must turn in such natures as thine , and as thou art no longer under the shield of holy church there is the less difficulty . Ho there ! lay-brothers -- -Francis , Naomi , Joseph -- -seize him and bind his arms ! Drag him forth , and let the foresters and the porters scourge him from the precincts ! `` As these three brothers advanced towards him to carry out the Abbot 's direction , the smile faded from the novice 's face , and he glanced right and left with his fierce brown eyes , like a bull at a baiting . Then , with a sudden deep-chested shout , he tore up the heavy oaken prie-dieu and poised it to strike , taking two steps backward the while , that none might take him at a vantage . `` By the black rood of Waltham ! '' he roared , `` if any knave among you lays a finger-end upon the edge of my gown , I will crush his skull like a filbert ! '' With his thick knotted arms , his thundering voice , and his bristle of red hair , there was something so repellent in the man that the three brothers flew back at the very glare of him ; and the two rows of white monks strained away from him like poplars in a tempest . The Abbot only sprang forward with shining eyes ; but the chancellor and the master hung upon either arm and wrested him back out of danger 's way . `` He is possessed of a devil ! '' they shouted . `` Run , brother Ambrose , brother Joachim ! Call Hugh of the Mill , and Woodman Wat , and Raoul with his arbalest and bolts . Tell them that we are in fear of our lives ! Run , run ! for the love of the Virgin ! `` But the novice was a strategist as well as a man of action . Springing forward , he hurled his unwieldy weapon at brother Ambrose , and , as desk and monk clattered on to the floor together , he sprang through the open door and down the winding stair . Sleepy old brother Athanasius , at the porter 's cell , had a fleeting vision of twinkling feet and flying skirts ; but before he had time to rub his eyes the recreant had passed the lodge , and was speeding as fast as his sandals could patter along the Lyndhurst Road.Never had the peaceful atmosphere of the old Cistercian house been so rudely ruffled . Never had there been insurrection so sudden , so short , and so successful . Yet the Abbot Berghersh was a man of too firm a grain to allow one bold outbreak to imperil the settled order of his great household . In a few hot and bitter words , he compared their false brother 's exit to the expulsion of our first parents from the garden , and more than hinted that unless a reformation occurred some others of the community might find themselves in the same evil and perilous case . Having thus pointed the moral and reduced his flock to a fitting state of docility , he dismissed them once more