spreading out behind him . He stopped as he came out , and turned to the captain of the guard . `` You have a note for me ? `` `` Yes , sire . `` The monarch slipped it into the pocket of his scarlet undervest , and was advancing once more when his eyes fell upon Madame de Montespan standing very stiff and erect in the middle of the passage . A dark flush of anger shot to his brow , and he walked swiftly past her without a word ; but she turned and kept pace with him down the corridor . `` I had not expected this honour , madame , '' said he . `` Nor had I expected this insult , sire . `` `` An insult , madame ? You forget yourself . `` `` No ; it is you who have forgotten me , sire . `` `` You intrude upon me . `` `` I wished to hear my fate from your own lips , '' she whispered . `` I can bear to be struck myself , sire , even by him who has my heart . But it is hard to hear that one 's brother has been wounded through the mouths of valets and Huguenot soldiers for no fault of his , save that his sister has loved too fondly . `` `` It is no time to speak of such things . `` `` When can I see you , then , sire ? `` `` In your chamber . `` `` At what hour ? `` `` At four . `` `` Then I shall trouble your Majesty no further . '' She swept him one of the graceful courtesies for which she was famous , and turned away down a side passage with triumph shining in her eyes . Her beauty and her spirit had never failed her yet , and now that she had the monarch 's promise of an interview she never doubted that she could do as she had done before , and win back the heart of the man , however much against the conscience of the king.Louis had walked on to his devotions in no very charitable frame of mind , as was easily to be seen from his clouded brow and compressed lips . He knew his late favourite well , her impulsiveness , her audacity , her lack of all restraint when thwarted or opposed . She was capable of making a hideous scandal , of turning against him that bitter tongue which had so often made him laugh at the expense of others , perhaps even of making some public exposure which would leave him the butt and gossip of Europe . He shuddered at the thought . At all costs such a catastrophe must be averted . And yet how could he cut the tie which bound them ? He had broken other such bonds as these ; but the gentle La Valliere had shrunk into a convent at the very first glance which had told her of waning love . That was true affection . But this woman would struggle hard , fight to the bitter end , before she would quit the position which was so dear to her . She spoke of her wrongs . What were her wrongs ? In his intense selfishness , nurtured by the eternal flattery which was the very air he breathed , he could not see that the fifteen years of her life which he had absorbed , or the loss of the husband whom he had supplanted , gave her any claim upon him . In his view he had raised her to the highest position which a subject could occupy . Now he was weary of her , and it was her duty to retire with resignation , nay , even with gratitude for past favours . She should have a pension , and the children should be cared for . What could a reasonable woman ask for more ? And then his motives for discarding her were so excellent . He turned them over in his mind as he knelt listening to the Archbishop of Paris reciting the Mass , and the more he thought , the more he approved . His conception of the deity was as a larger Louis , and of heaven as a more gorgeous Versailles . If he exacted obedience from his twenty millions , then he must show it also to this one who had a right to demand it of him . On the whole , his conscience acquitted him . But in this one matter he had been lax . From the first coming of his gentle and forgiving young wife from Spain , he had never once permitted her to be without a rival . Now that she was dead , the matter was no better . One favourite had succeeded another , and if De Montespan had held her own so long , it was rather from her audacity than from his affection . But now Father La Chaise and Bossuet were ever reminding him that he had topped the summit of his life , and was already upon that downward path which leads to the grave . His wild outburst over the unhappy Fontanges had represented the last flicker of his passions . The time had come for gravity and for calm , neither of which was to be expected in the company of Madame de Montespan.But he had found out where they were to be enjoyed . From the day when De Montespan had introduced the stately and silent widow as a governess for his children , he had found a never-failing and ever-increasing pleasure in her society . In the early days of her coming he had sat for hours in the rooms of his favourite , watching the tact and sweetness of temper with which her dependent controlled the mutinous spirits of the petulant young Duc du Maine and the mischievous little Comte de Toulouse . He had been there nominally for the purpose of superintending the teaching , but he had confined himself to admiring the teacher . And then in time he too had been drawn into the attraction of that strong sweet nature , and had found himself consulting her upon points of conduct , and acting upon her advice with a docility which he had never shown before to minister or mistress . For a time he had thought that her piety and her talk of principle might be a mere mask , for he was accustomed to hypocrisy all round him . It was surely unlikely that a woman who was still beautiful , with as bright an eye and as graceful a figure as any in his court , could , after a life spent in the gayest circles , preserve the spirit of a nun . But on this point he was soon undeceived , for when his own language had become warmer than that of friendship , he had been met by an iciness of manner and a brevity of speech which had shown him that there was one woman at least in his dominions who had a higher respect for herself than for him . And perhaps it was better so . The placid pleasures of friendship were very soothing after the storms of passion . To sit in her room every afternoon , to listen to talk which was not tainted with flattery , and to hear opinions which were not framed to please his ear , were the occupations now of his happiest hours . And then her influence over him was all so good ! She spoke of his kingly duties , of his example to his subjects , of his preparation for the World beyond , and of the need for an effort to snap the guilty ties which he had formed . She was as good as a confessor -- -a confessor with a lovely face and a perfect arm.And now he knew that the time had come when he must choose between her and De Montespan . Their influences were antagonistic . They could not continue together . He stood between virtue and vice , and he must choose . Vice was very attractive too , very comely , very witty , and holding him by that chain of custom which is so hard to shake off . There were hours when his nature swayed strongly over to that side , and when he was tempted to fall back into his old life . But Bossuet and Pere la Chaise were ever at his elbows to whisper encouragement , and , above all , there was Madame de Maintenon to remind him of what was due to his position and to his six-and-forty years . Now at last he had braced himself for a supreme effort . There was no safety for him while his old favourite was at court . He knew himself too well to have any faith in a lasting change so long as she was there ever waiting for his moment of weakness . She must be persuaded to leave Versailles , if without a scandal it could be done . He would be firm when he met her in the afternoon , and make her understand once for all that her reign was forever over.Such were the thoughts which ran through the king 's head as he bent over the rich crimson cushion which topped hisprie-dieuof carved oak . He knelt in his own enclosure to the right of the altar , with his guards and his immediate household around him , while the court , ladies and cavaliers , filled the chapel . Piety was a fashion now , like dark overcoats and lace cravats , and no courtier was so worldly-minded as not to have had a touch of grace since the king had taken to religion . Yet they looked very bored , these soldiers and seigneurs , yawning and blinking over the missals , while some who seemed more intent upon their devotions were really dipping into the latest romance of Scudery or Calpernedi , cunningly bound up in a sombre cover . The ladies , indeed , were more devout , and were determined that all should see it , for each had lit a tiny taper , which she held in front of her on the plea of lighting up her missal , but really that her face might be visible to the king , and inform him that hers was a kindred spirit . A few there may have been , here and there , whose prayers rose from their hearts , and who were there of their own free will ; but the policy of Louis had changed his noblemen into courtiers and his men of the world into hypocrites , until the whole court was like one gigantic mirror which reflected his own likeness a hundredfold.It was the habit of Louis , as he walked back from the chapel , to receive petitions or to listen to any tales of wrong which his subjects might bring to him . His way , as he returned to his rooms , lay partly across an open space , and here it was that the suppliants were wont to assemble . On this particular morning there were but two or three -- -a Parisian , who conceived himself injured by the provost of his guild , a peasant whose cow had been torn by a huntsman 's dog , and a farmer who had had hard usage from his feudal lord . A few questions and then a hurried order to his secretary disposed of each case , for if Louis was a tyrant