when he heard that the seas lay between him and us . `` `` By my soul ! John , '' said the prince , `` I have never known you turn laggard before . `` `` The babbling hound , sire , is not always the first at the mort , '' the old knight answered . `` Nay , my true-heart ! I have tried you too often not to know . But , by my soul ! I have not seen so dense a throng since the day that we brought King John down Cheapside . `` It was indeed an enormous crowd which covered the whole vast plain from the line of vineyards to the river bank . From the northern gate the prince and his companions looked down at a dark sea of heads , brightened here and there by the colored hoods of the women , or by the sparkling head-pieces of archers and men-at-arms . In the centre of this vast assemblage the lists seemed but a narrow strip of green marked out with banners and streamers , while a gleam of white with a flutter of pennons at either end showed where the marquees were pitched which served as the dressing-rooms of the combatants . A path had been staked off from the city gate to the stands which had been erected for the court and the nobility . Down this , amid the shouts of the enormous multitude , the prince cantered with his two attendant kings , his high officers of state , and his long train of lords and ladies , courtiers , counsellors , and soldiers , with toss of plume and flash of jewel , sheen of silk and glint of gold -- -as rich and gallant a show as heart could wish . The head of the cavalcade had reached the lists ere the rear had come clear of the city gate , for the fairest and the bravest had assembled from all the broad lands which are watered by the Dordogne and the Garonne . Here rode dark-browed cavaliers from the sunny south , fiery soldiers from Gascony , graceful courtiers of Limousin or Saintonge , and gallant young Englishmen from beyond the seas . Here too were the beautiful brunettes of the Gironde , with eyes which out-flashed their jewels , while beside them rode their blonde sisters of England , clear cut and aquiline , swathed in swans'-down and in ermine , for the air was biting though the sun was bright . Slowly the long and glittering train wound into the lists , until every horse had been tethered by the varlets in waiting , and every lord and lady seated in the long stands which stretched , rich in tapestry and velvet and blazoned arms , on either side of the centre of the arena.The holders of the lists occupied the end which was nearest to the city gate . There , in front of their respective pavilions , flew the martlets of Audley , the roses of Loring , the scarlet bars of Wake , the lion of the Percies and the silver wings of the Beauchamps , each supported by a squire clad in hanging green stuff to represent so many Tritons , and bearing a huge conch-shell in their left hands . Behind the tents the great war-horses , armed at all points , champed and reared , while their masters sat at the doors of their pavilions , with their helmets upon their knees , chatting as to the order of the day 's doings . The English archers and men-at-arms had mustered at that end of the lists , but the vast majority of the spectators were in favor of the attacking party , for the English had declined in popularity ever since the bitter dispute as to the disposal of the royal captive after the battle of Poictiers . Hence the applause was by no means general when the herald-at-arms proclaimed , after a flourish of trumpets , the names and styles of the knights who were prepared , for the honor of their country and for the love of their ladies , to hold the field against all who might do them the favor to run a course with them . On the other hand , a deafening burst of cheering greeted the rival herald , who , advancing from the other end of the lists , rolled forth the well-known titles of the five famous warriors who had accepted the defiance . `` Faith , John , '' said the prince , `` it sounds as though you were right . Ha ! my grace D'Armagnac , it seems that our friends on this side will not grieve if our English champions lose the day . `` `` It may be so , sire , '' the Gascon nobleman answered . `` I have little doubt that in Smithfield or at Windsor an English crowd would favor their own countrymen . `` `` By my faith ! that 's easily seen , '' said the prince , laughing , `` for a few score English archers at yonder end are bellowing as though they would out-shout the mighty multitude . I fear that they will have little to shout over this tourney , for my gold vase has small prospect of crossing the water . What are the conditions , John ? `` `` They are to tilt singly not less than three courses , sire , and the victory to rest with that party which shall have won the greater number of courses , each pair continuing till one or other have the vantage . He who carries himself best of the victors hath the prize , and he who is judged best of the other party hath a jewelled clasp . Shall I order that the nakirs sound , sire ? `` The prince nodded , and the trumpets rang out , while the champions rode forth one after the other , each meeting his opponent in the centre of the lists . Sir William Beauchamp went down before the practiced lance of the Captal de Buch . Sir Thomas Percy won the vantage over the Lord of Mucident , and the Lord Audley struck Sir Perducas d'Albret from the saddle . The burly De Clisson , however , restored the hopes of the attackers by beating to the ground Sir Thomas Wake of Yorkshire . So far , there was little to choose betwixt challengers and challenged . `` By Saint James of Santiago ! '' cried Don Pedro , with a tinge of color upon his pale cheeks , `` win who will , this has been a most notable contest . `` `` Who comes next for England , John ? '' asked the prince in a voice which quivered with excitement . `` Sir Nigel Loring of Hampshire , sire. '' '' Ha ! he is a man of good courage , and skilled in the use of all weapons . `` `` He is indeed , sire . But his eyes , like my own , are the worse for wars . Yet he can tilt or play his part at hand-strokes as merrily as ever . It was he , sire , who won the golden crown which Queen Philippa , your royal mother , gave to be jousted for by all the knights of England after the harrying of Calais . I have heard that at Twynham Castle there is a buffet which groans beneath the weight of his prizes . `` `` I pray that my vase may join them , '' said the prince . `` But here is the cavalier of Germany , and by my soul ! he looks like a man of great valor and hardiness . Let them run their full three courses , for the issue is over-great to hang upon one . `` As the prince spoke , amid a loud flourish of trumpets and the shouting of the Gascon party , the last of the assailants rode gallantly into the lists . He was a man of great size , clad in black armor without blazonry or ornament of any kind , for all worldly display was forbidden by the rules of the military brotherhood to which he belonged . No plume or nobloy fluttered from his plain tilting salade , and even his lance was devoid of the customary banderole . A white mantle fluttered behind him , upon the left side of which was marked the broad black cross picked out with silver which was the well-known badge of the Teutonic Order . Mounted upon a horse as large , as black , and as forbidding as himself , he cantered slowly forward , with none of those prancings and gambades with which a cavalier was accustomed to show his command over his charger . Gravely and sternly he inclined his head to the prince , and took his place at the further end of the arena.He had scarce done so before Sir Nigel rode out from the holders ' enclosure , and galloping at full speed down the lists , drew his charger up before the prince 's stand with a jerk which threw it back upon its haunches . With white armor , blazoned shield , and plume of ostrich-feathers from his helmet , he carried himself in so jaunty and joyous a fashion , with tossing pennon and curveting charger , that a shout of applause ran the full circle of the arena . With the air of a man who hastes to a joyous festival , he waved his lance in salute , and reining the pawing horse round without permitting its fore-feet to touch the ground , he hastened back to his station.A great hush fell over the huge multitude as the two last champions faced each other . A double issue seemed to rest upon their contest , for their personal fame was at stake as well as their party 's honor . Both were famous warriors , but as their exploits had been performed in widely sundered countries , they had never before been able to cross lances . A course between such men would have been enough in itself to cause the keenest interest , apart from its being the crisis which would decide who should be the victors of the day . For a moment they waited -- -the German sombre and collected , Sir Nigel quivering in every fibre with eagerness and fiery resolution . Then , amid a long-drawn breath from the spectators , the glove fell from the marshal 's hand , and the two steel-clad horsemen met like a thunderclap in front of the royal stand . The German , though he reeled for an instant before the thrust of the Englishman , struck his opponent so fairly upon the vizor that the laces burst , the plumed helmet flew to pieces , and Sir Nigel galloped on down the lists with his bald head shimmering in the sunshine . A thousand waving scarves and tossing caps announced that the first bout had fallen to the popular party.The Hampshire knight was not a man to be disheartened by a reverse . He spurred back to the pavilion , and was out in a few instants with another helmet . The second course was so equal that the keenest judges could not discern any vantage . Each struck fire from the other 's shield , and each endured the jarring shock as though welded to the horse beneath him . In the final bout , however , Sir Nigel struck his opponent with so true an aim that the point of the lance caught between the bars of his vizor and