I am , '' said Alleyne . `` But if I were not , is that reason why you should molest me on the king 's ground ? `` `` I give not the pip of an apple for king or for noble , '' cried the serf passionately . `` Ill have I had from them , and ill I shall repay them . I am a good friend to my friends , and , by the Virgin ! an evil foeman to my foes . `` `` And therefore the worst of foemen to thyself , '' said Alleyne . `` But I pray you , since you seem to know him , to point out to me the shortest path to my brother 's house . `` The serf was about to reply , when the clear ringing call of a bugle burst from the wood close behind them , and Alleyne caught sight for an instant of the dun side and white breast of a lordly stag glancing swiftly betwixt the distant tree trunks . A minute later came the shaggy deer-hounds , a dozen or fourteen of them , running on a hot scent , with nose to earth and tail in air . As they streamed past the silent forest around broke suddenly into loud life , with galloping of hoofs , crackling of brushwood , and the short , sharp cries of the hunters . Close behind the pack rode a fourrier and a yeoman-pricker , whooping on the laggards and encouraging the leaders , in the shrill half-French jargon which was the language of venery and woodcraft . Alleyne was still gazing after them , listening to the loud `` Hyke-a-Bayard ! Hyke-a-Pomers ! Hyke-a-Lebryt ! '' with which they called upon their favorite hounds , when a group of horsemen crashed out through the underwood at the very spot where the serf and he were standing.The one who led was a man between fifty and sixty years of age , war-worn and weather-beaten , with a broad , thoughtful forehead and eyes which shone brightly from under his fierce and overhung brows . His beard , streaked thickly with gray , bristled forward from his chin , and spoke of a passionate nature , while the long , finely cut face and firm mouth marked the leader of men . His figure was erect and soldierly , and he rode his horse with the careless grace of a man whose life had been spent in the saddle . In common garb , his masterful face and flashing eye would have marked him as one who was born to rule ; but now , with his silken tunic powdered with golden fleurs-de-lis , his velvet mantle lined with the royal minever , and the lions of England stamped in silver upon his harness , none could fail to recognize the noble Edward , most warlike and powerful of all the long line of fighting monarchs who had ruled the Anglo-Norman race . Alleyne doffed hat and bowed head at the sight of him , but the serf folded his hands and leaned them upon his cudgel , looking with little love at the knot of nobles and knights-in-waiting who rode behind the king. '' Ha ! '' cried Edward , reining up for an instant his powerful black steed . `` Le cerf est passe ? Non ? Ici , Brocas ; tu parles Anglais . `` `` The deer , clowns ? '' said a hard-visaged , swarthy-faced man , who rode at the king 's elbow . `` If ye have headed it back it is as much as your ears are worth . `` `` It passed by the blighted beech there , '' said Alleyne , pointing , `` and the hounds were hard at its heels . `` `` It is well , '' cried Edward , still speaking in French : for , though he could understand English , he had never learned to express himself in so barbarous and unpolished a tongue . `` By my faith , sirs , '' he continued , half turning in his saddle to address his escort , `` unless my woodcraft is sadly at fault , it is a stag of six tines and the finest that we have roused this journey . A golden St. Hubert to the man who is the first to sound the mort . '' He shook his bridle as he spoke , and thundered away , his knights lying low upon their horses and galloping as hard as whip and spur would drive them , in the hope of winning the king 's prize . Away they drove down the long green glade -- -bay horses , black and gray , riders clad in every shade of velvet , fur , or silk , with glint of brazen horn and flash of knife and spear . One only lingered , the black-browed Baron Brocas , who , making a gambade which brought him within arm-sweep of the serf , slashed him across the face with his riding-whip . `` Doff , dog , doff , '' he hissed , `` when a monarch deigns to lower his eyes to such as you ! '' -- -then spurred through the underwood and was gone , with a gleam of steel shoes and flutter of dead leaves.The villein took the cruel blow without wince or cry , as one to whom stripes are a birthright and an inheritance . His eyes flashed , however , and he shook his bony hand with a fierce wild gesture after the retreating figure . `` Black hound of Gascony , '' he muttered , `` evil the day that you and those like you set foot in free England ! I know thy kennel of Rochecourt . The night will come when I may do to thee and thine what you and your class have wrought upon mine and me . May God smite me if I fail to smite thee , thou French robber , with thy wife and thy child and all that is under thy castle roof ! '' '' Forbear ! '' cried Alleyne . `` Mix not God 's name with these unhallowed threats ! And yet it was a coward 's blow , and one to stir the blood and loose the tongue of the most peaceful . Let me find some soothing simples and lay them on the weal to draw the sting . `` `` Nay , there is but one thing that can draw the sting , and that the future may bring to me . But , clerk , if you would see your brother you must on , for there is a meeting to-day , and his merry men will await him ere the shadows turn from west to east . I pray you not to hold him back , for it would be an evil thing if all the stout lads were there and the leader a-missing . I would come with you , but sooth to say I am stationed here and may not move . The path over yonder , betwixt the oak and the thorn , should bring you out into his nether field . `` Alleyne lost no time in following the directions of the wild , masterless man , whom he left among the trees where he had found him . His heart was the heavier for the encounter , not only because all bitterness and wrath were abhorrent to his gentle nature , but also because it disturbed him to hear his brother spoken of as though he were a chief of outlaws or the leader of a party against the state . Indeed , of all the things which he had seen yet in the world to surprise him there was none more strange than the hate which class appeared to bear to class . The talk of laborer , woodman and villein in the inn had all pointed to the wide-spread mutiny , and now his brother 's name was spoken as though he were the very centre of the universal discontent . In good truth , the commons throughout the length and breadth of the land were heart-weary of this fine game of chivalry which had been played so long at their expense . So long as knight and baron were a strength and a guard to the kingdom they might be endured , but now , when all men knew that the great battles in France had been won by English yeomen and Welsh stabbers , warlike fame , the only fame to which his class had ever aspired , appeared to have deserted the plate-clad horsemen . The sports of the lists had done much in days gone by to impress the minds of the people , but the plumed and unwieldy champion was no longer an object either of fear or of reverence to men whose fathers and brothers had shot into the press at Crecy or Poitiers , and seen the proudest chivalry in the world unable to make head against the weapons of disciplined peasants . Power had changed hands . The protector had become the protected , and the whole fabric of the feudal system was tottering to a fall . Hence the fierce mutterings of the lower classes and the constant discontent , breaking out into local tumult and outrage , and culminating some years later in the great rising of Tyler . What Alleyne saw and wondered at in Hampshire would have appealed equally to the traveller in any other English county from the Channel to the marches of Scotland.He was following the track , his misgivings increasing with every step which took him nearer to that home which he had never seen , when of a sudden the trees began to thin and the sward to spread out onto a broad , green lawn , where five cows lay in the sunshine and droves of black swine wandered unchecked . A brown forest stream swirled down the centre of this clearing , with a rude bridge flung across it , and on the other side was a second field sloping up to a long , low-lying wooden house , with thatched roof and open squares for windows . Alleyne gazed across at it with flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes -- -for this , he knew , must be the home of his fathers . A wreath of blue smoke floated up through a hole in the thatch , and was the only sign of life in the place , save a great black hound which lay sleeping chained to the door-post . In the yellow shimmer of the autumn sunshine it lay as peacefully and as still as he had oft pictured it to himself in his dreams.He was roused , however , from his pleasant reverie by the sound of voices , and two people emerged from the forest some little way to his right and moved across the field in the direction of the bridge . The one was a man with yellow flowing beard and very long hair of the same tint drooping over his shoulders ; his dress of good Norwich cloth and his assured bearing marked him as a man of position , while the sombre hue of his clothes and the absence of all ornament contrasted with the flash and glitter which had marked the king 's retinue . By his side walked a woman , tall and slight and dark , with lithe , graceful figure and clear-cut , composed features . Her jet-black hair was gathered back under a light pink coif , her head poised proudly upon her neck , and her step long and springy , like